PROCEEDINGS OF THE
FLORIDA STATE
HORTICULTURAL
SOCIETY for 1911



PUBLISHED BY THE SOCIETY





















r •.





















DR. PROSPER J. A. BERCKMANS








PROCEEDINGS

OF THE

TWENTY-FOURTH ANNUAL

MEETING

OF THE

FLORIDA STATE
HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY

HELD AT

JACKSONVILLE, MAY 2, 3, 4 AND 5, 1911



Compiled By The Secretary
Published By The Society

















Digitized by the Internet Archive in 2019 with funding from
BHL-SIL-FEDLINK




https://archive.org/details/proceedingsofann2419unse


CONSTITUTION


Article i. This organization shall be known as The Florida State Horti¬
cultural Society, and its object shall be the advancement of horticulture.

Article 2. Any person may become a member of the Society by subscribing to the Constitution and paying one dollar. Any person may become a Life Member of the Society by subscribing to the Constitution and paying ten dollars.

Article 3. Its Officers shall consist of a President, three Vice Presidents.
Secretary, Treasurer, and Executive Committee of three, who shall be elected by ballot at each annual meeting. After the first election, their term of office shall begin on the first day of January following their election.

Article 4. The*regular annual meeting of this Society shall be held on the second Tuesday in April, except when otherwise ordered by the Executive Com¬
mittee.

Article 5. The duties of the President, Vice Presidents, Secretary and
Treasurer shall be such as usually devolve on those officers. The President, Sec¬
retary and Treasurer shall be ex-officio members of the Executive Committee.

Article 6. The Executive Committee shall have authority to act for the
Society between annual meetings.

Article 7. The Constitution may be amended by a vote of two-thirds of the members present.


BY-LAWS


1. The Society year shall be co-extensive with the calendar year, and the an¬
nual dues of Members shall be one dollar.

2. All bills authorized by the Society or its Executive Committee, for its legitimate expenses, shall be paid by the Secretary \s draft on the Treasurer, O.
K.’d by the President.

3. The meetings of the Society shall be devoted only to Horticultural topics,
from scientific and practical standpoints, and the Presiding Officer shall rule out of order all motions, resolutions and discussions tending to commit the Society to par¬
tisan politics or mercantile ventures.









»-








Florida State Horticultural Society


OFFICERS ELECT FOR I9JI:


PRESIDENT I

H. HAROLD HUME, Glen St. Mary.


vice presidents:

W. C. TEMPLE, Winter Park; H. B. STEVENS, DeLand; E. V. BLACKMAN,

Miami.


SECRETARY:

E. O. PAINTER, Jacksonville.


TREASURER:

W. S. HART, Hawks Park.


executive committee:

P. H. ROLFS, Gainesville; E. S. HUBBARD, Federal Point; G, L. TABER,

Glen St. Mary.

President, Secretary and Treasurer, ex-officio.








Standing Committees


Method of Packing and Shipping Citrus
Fruits. —L. B. Skinner, Dunedin, Fla.;
M. S. Burbank, Miami, Fla.; S. C.
Warner, Palatka, Fla.

j

Methods of Handling Citrus Groves .—
L. B. Knox, Bulow, Fla.; Wm. Ed¬
wards, Zell wood, Fla.; B. F. Tilling-
hast, Crescent City, Fla.; J. Willis
Westlake, Lake Helen, Fla.; W. E.
McLean, Grenada, Miss.

i

Ornamentals .—H. Nehrling, Gotha, Fla.;
Mrs. Emma J. Hildrup, Welaka, Fla.;
Mrs. Wallace R. Moses, West Palm
Beach, Fla.; Mrs. A. M. Griffiing, Lit¬
tle River, Fla.

Irrigation. —C. H. Thompson, Winter
Haven, Fla.; Walter Drennen, Orlan¬
do, Fla.; J. W. Kimbrough, Webster,
Fla.

Vegetables. —W. D. Hughes, Miami,
Fla.; J. F. Tenney, Federal Point, Fla.;
Fred S. Morse, Miami, Fla.

Peaches and Deciduous Fruits. —J. P.
Mace. Lake Helen, Fla.; F. O. Hen-
derson, Gainesville, Fla.; J. C. Bates,
Lake City, Fla.


Pineapples. —B. K. McCarty, Eldred,
Fla.; H. C. Hendricksen, Havana,
Cuba; Olaf Olsen, White City, Fla.

Fertilizers. —A. W. Blair, Gainesville,
Fla.; W. W. Hathaway, Jacksonville,
Fla.; E. S. Williams, Fort Pierce, Fla.

Tropical Fruits. —H. F. Schultz, Miami,
Fla.; John B. Beach, West Palm
Beach, Fla.; L. H. Gurney, Merritt,
Fla.

Insects and Diseases. —E. W. Berger,
Gainesville, Fla.; H. S. Fawcett,
Gainesville, Fla.; W. S. Hart, Hawks
Park, Fla.

Nuts. —C. M. Griffing, Jacksonville, Fla.;
J. B. Curtis, Orange Heights, Fla.; R.
S. Simpson, Monticello, Fla.

Necrology. —E. S. Hubbard, Federal
Point, Fla.; Edgar A. Wright, Tampa,,
Fla.

Legislation. —M. E. Gillett, Tampa, Fla .;
E. O. Painter, Jacksonville, Fla.; G.
L. Taber, Glen St. Mary, Fla.; I. A.
Stewart, DeLand, Fla.; O. W. Conner,
Tangerine, Fla.; E. H. Mote, Lees¬
burg, Fla.





List of Members


HONORARY MEMBERS.

Flagler, H. M., St. Augustine, Fla. 
Hart, W. S., Hawks Park, Fla.

Gaitskill, S. H., McIntosh, Fla. 
Painter, E. O., Jacksonville, Fla.


(

LIFE MEMBERS.


Alderman, A. D., Bartow, Fla.

Allan, Wm., 136 W. 79th St., New York City.
Andrews, C. W., Chicago, Ill., John Crerar Li¬
brary.

Baltram, Francisco, Monterey, N. L., Mexico.
Barber, C. F., Macclenny, Fla.

Bartlett, A. F., St. Petersburg, Fla.

Bell, J. D., St. Petersburg, Fla.

Budd, H. S., Leesburg, Fla.

Carpenter, G. F., 56 Beck St., Attleboro, Mass.
Chapman, A. E., Palmetto, Fla., R.F.D. No. 1.
Chidester, D. D., Philadelphia, Pa., 2321 Mad¬
ison Square.

Cook, R. F. E., Leesburg, Fla.

Conner, O. W., Tangerine, Fla.

Conner, W. E., New York City, 31 Nassau St.
Cresson, W. H., City Point, Fla.

Crutchfield & Woolfork, Penn. Produce Bldg.,
21st St., Pittsburg, Pa.

Crockett, Mrs. C. B., 124 nth St., Miami, Fla-
Crosby, J. A., San Mateo, Fla.

Cunliff, L. H., East Douglass, Mass.
Cunningham, A. D., »St. Louis, Mo., 421 Olive
Street.

Drew, Prof. Wm. L., 13 East Ave.. Ithaca,
N. Y.

Ellsworth, W. J., Blanton, Fla.

Felt, J. P., Emporia, Fla.

Francis, Chas., Jr., Interlachen, Fla.

Frink, Aubrey, Winchester, Tenn.

Gossard, Prof. H. A., Ohio Ex. »Sta., Wooster,
Ohio.

Gushee, E. G., Philadelphia, Pa., 2830 W. Le¬
high Avenue.

Griffing, C. M., Jacksonville, Fla.

Haden, Mrs. Florence P., Cocoanut Grove, Fla.
Harris, E. K., East Palatka, Fla.


Harris, Mrs. A. C., East Palatka, Fla.
Harvey, S. S., 99 Prado, Havana, Cuba.
Hastings, H. G., Atlanta, Ga., 35 Marietta St.
Hempel, H. A., Gotha, Fla.

Henricksen, H. C., Havana, Cuba.

Hentz, W. B., City Point, Fla.

Herff, B. von, New York City, 93 Nassau
St., N. Y.

Hernandez, Pedro M., San Fernando, 108 Cien-
fuegos, Cuba. !

Hopper, I. A., Orlando, Fla.

Hume, H. Harold, Glen St. Mary, Fla.
Hubbard, E. S-, Federal Point, Fla.
Hutchinson, R. H., New York City, 51 Front
Street.

Johnston, S. W., DeLand, Fla.

Kerr, Dr. George, 325 Armstead Ave., Hamp¬
ton, Va.

Krome, W. J., Marathon, Fla.

Lauman, G. N., Ithaca, N. Y.

Lewis, Dr. Fred D., Buffalo, N. Y., 188 Frank¬
lin St.

Livingston, Dr. Alfred, Jamestown. N. Y.
Loehr, F. C., Ft. Ogden, Fla., Box 28.

Love, Ozor T., Ambler, Pa.

Manville, Mrs. A. H., Orange City, Fla.
Martin, Wm. A., Sebastine, Fla.

Marine, Peter, Palma Sola, Fla.

Merritt, Dr. J. C., Orlando, Fla.

Milligan, J. W., Apopka, Fla.

Mills, C. D. Jacksonville, Fla.

Miller, H. K., Monticello, Fla.

Mote, E. H., Leesburg, Fla.

Myer, H. Van W., Cocoanut Grove, Fla.
McCarty, Mrs. C. T-, Eldred, Fla.

McCarty, B. K., Eldred, Fla.

McCarty, D. T., Ft. Pierce, Fla.

Norvenland Fruit Co.. San Juan, P. R.
Nehrling, H., Gotha, Fla.

j

Olsen, Olaf, White City, Fla.




10


FLORIDA STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY.


Painter, Mrs. E. O., Jacksonville, Fla.

Pike, W- N., Floral Park, N. Y.

Prang, Mrs. Nettie M. G., Jacksonville, Fla.
Porcher, Mr. E. P., Cocoa, Fla.

Porcher, Mrs. E. P., Cocoa, Fla.

Racey, C. H., Waveland, Fla.

Raulerson, J. Ed., Lily, Fla.

Rickeston, Mrs. M. C., Grayfield, Cumberland
Island, Fernandina, Fla.

Robinson, M. F., Sanford, Fla.

Rolfs, Prof. P. H., Gainesville, Fla.

Rolfs, Mrs. P. H., Gainesville, Fla.

,Smith, C. E., Bogwalk, Jamaica-
Sneden, W. C., Waveland, Fla.

Sparvath, R. M., Englandsgade 37, Esbjerg,
Denmark.


Stanton, F. W., Philadelphia, Pa-, 14 Vine St.
Stevens, Edmund, Verge Alta, P. R.

Strauss, J. E., Lealman, Fla.

Stuart, L. N., Montemorelos, L. N., Mexico.

Taber, G. L., Glen »St. Mary, Fla.

Trelease, Wm. P., Missouri Botanical Garden,
St. Louis, Mo.

Temple, W. C., Tampa, Fla.

Temple, Mrs. W. C., Winter Park, Fla.

Waite, F. D., Palmetto, Fla.

Wester,, P. J., Bureau Agriculture, Philippine
Islands.

White, C. G., Haiku, Maui Island, Hawaii.
Williams, E. S., Fort Pierce, Fla.

Wilson, L. A., Jacksonville, Fla.

Woodroffe, Auckland, New Zealand.
Worcester, C. H., Pomona, Fla.


ANNUAL MEMBERS.


Adams, F. H., Dunedin, Fla.

Adams, Mrs. F. H., Dunedin, Fla.

Adams, G. W., Thonotosassa, Fla.

Adams, Mrs. G. W. Thonotosassa, Fla.

Adams, J. Q., Geneva, Fla.

Agnew, F. Vans, Kissimmee, Fla.

Alden, B. H., DeLand, Fla.

Alden I. C., Akron, Ohio.

Almond, J. D., Ft. Pierce, Fla.

Anderson, Robt., 25 W. LaCrosse Ave., Lands-
downe, Pa.

Andrews, Philip R., Florence Villa, Fla.
Arnold, R. A., Orlando, Fla.

Arnold, T. E., DeLand, Fla.

Atwater, W. M., Quay, Fla.

Atwater, Mrs. W. M., Quay, Fla.

Ayers, Dr. W. McL., 4 W. Seventh St., Cin¬
cinnati, Ohio.

Ball, F. H., Jacksonville, Fla.

Bass, M. M., Glen »St. Mary, Fla.

Bateman, L. Latrobe, Osprey, Fla.

Bates, J. C., Lake City, Fla.

Bayliss, C. W., Grand Island, Fla.

Beach, John B., W. Palm Beach, Fla.
Beauchamps, Col. H., Orlando, Fla.

Beekler, W. A., Care Q. & C. R.R., Cincinnati,
Ohio.

Beers, John J., Emporia, Fla.

Bemenderfer, Chas., White City, Fla.

Bentley, M. E., 39 San Marco Ave., St. Aug¬
ustine, Fla.

Berger, E. W-, Gainesville, Fla.

Berger, Mrs. E. W., Gainesville, Fla.

Birley, H- C., P. O. Box 208, Lake City, Fla.
Blackman, E. V., Miami, Fla.

Blackman, W. F., Winter Park, Fla.

Blair, A. W., Gainesville, Fla.


Blakely, W. P., Ocoee, Fla.

Bodman, S. E., St. Petersburg, Fla.

Bosworth, H. J., Annona, Fla.

Bourley, A. H., Leesburg, Fla.

Bouton, C. B., 310-312 W. Adams St.. Chicago,
Ill.

Brabrook, A. G., Grant, Fla.

Bredow, F. W., Glenwood, Fla.

Bristol, Geo. W., DeLand, Fla.

Brown, A. H., Manavista, Fla.

Brown, A. L., Eustis, Fla.

Bryan, W. E., Belleair, Fla.

Bryon, Gilbert L., 219 Fifth >St., South, Min¬
neapolis, Minn.

Bruce, G- Duncan, Florence Villa, Fla.

Bunce, Charles H., Belleair, Fla.

Burch, E. H., ^Sarasota, Fla.

Burbank, M. ,S., Miami, Fla.

Burbank, Mrs. M. S., Miami, Fla.

Burleigh, E. S., Tavares, Fla.

Burton, R. P., Tampa, Fla.

Butler, G. A., Tavares, Fla.

Cadman, Mrs. W. E., Narcoossee, Fla.
Campbell, A. E., Roseland, Fla.

Campbell, J. P., Jacksonville, Fla.

Cannon, E. E., Gainesville, Fla.

Carlton, Geo. S., Pine, Fla.

Carroll. J. S., Continental Bldg., Baltimore.
Md.

Carroll, W. W., Monticello, Fla.

Chamberlain, E. W., Tangerine, Fla.

Chapman, J. T., Plymouth, Fla.

Chase, J. C., Jacksonville, Fla.

Churchill, W. K. White City, Fla.

Clarke, Jas. K., Ardmore, Pa.

Clarke, John S., Ardmore, Pa.

Clarke, Louis C., Ardmore, Pa.


FLORIDA »STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY.


ii


Clifton, Henry, New Smyrna. Fla.

Coachman, ,S- S. Clearwater, Fla.

Cobb, T. M., Corsicana, Texas.

Colby, W. F., Ormond, Fla.

Collins, John S., Miami, Fla.

Collins, John S., Moorestown, N. J.

Compton, J. H., Clermont, Fla.

Conant, C. F., Bartow, Fla.

Condit, E. M., Daytona, Fla.

Conklin, Edwin P., Lotus, Fla.

Connelly, Walter, Jacksonville, Fla.

Conrad, J. B., Glenwood, Fla.

Cook, W. A., Oneco, Fla.

Cooper, H. C., Jacksonville, Fla.

Copeland, W. R., Quay, Fla.

Corrigan, Joseph F., St. Leo, Fla.

Corbett, Walter P-, Jacksonville, Fla.

Crosby, Mrs. J. A., San Mateo, Fla.
Crosthwait, L. M., Bloomington, Ill.

Curtis, Dr. J. B., San Mateo, Fla.

Curtis, Mrs. J. B., San Mateo, Fla.

Dade, L. T., Orange City, Fla.

Davidson, Col. H. P., Highland Park, Ill.
DeForest, Norman, Sanford, Fla.

DeForest, Mrs. H. L., ^Sanford, Fla.

Denison, U. A., Winter Haven, Fla.

Dexter, C. A., Roberts, Fla.

Dickinson, Alfred, Gainesville, Fla.

Dickinson, E., 507 Madison St., Tampa, Fla
Dickinson, Miss Frances, Orange City, Fla.
Doll,. Chas. E., 98 Front St., New York, N. Y.
Dommerick, L. F., Maitland, Fla.

Donnelly, J. B., Palm Beach, Fla.

Donnelly, T., Indianola, Fla.

Douet, G., Astatula, Fla.

Drake. T. P., Yalaha, Fla.

Driscoll, W. J., Arcadia, Fla.

Duchardt, Geo., Geneva, Fla.

Dyer, Harry, Stuart, Fla.

Earle, Mrs. Wm. H., Tangerine, Fla.

Edwards, L. C., Dothan, Ala.

Edwards, Wm., Zellwood, Fla.

Ellis, G. R., Gainesville, Fla.

Elmore, Thos. F., Jacksonville, Fla.

Ensing, W. S., Winter Haven, Fla.

Evans, A. L., Orange Park, Fla.

Evans, Miss Marthena, Winter Haven, Fla.

Farley, J. F., Malabar, Fla.

Fawcett. Geo. L., Mayaguez, Porto Rico.
Fawcett, H. S., Gainesville, Fla.

Filcher, R. E., Largo, Fla.

Finnie, A. A., Coleman, Fla.

Fishback, D. E., Orlando, Fla.

Fleming. H., Kissimmee, Fla.

Florida Nursery Co., Monticello, Fla.

Floyd, B. F., Gainesville, Fla.

Floyd, W. L., Gainesville, Fla.

Forkner, C. E., Marshalltown, Iowa.


Fox, Geo, Hastings, Fla.

France, John B., Bowling Green, Fla.
Franklin, Jeff D., Mt. Dora, Fla.

Freeman, W. D., ,Station H., Cincinnati, Ohio
Fremd, Wm., Palm Beach, Fla.

Fugazzi & Co., 203 W. Sixth St., Cincinnati,
Ohio.

Funston. R. E., 5728 Cates Ave., St. Louis, Mo
Futch, J. E., Gainesville, Fla.

Gaines, J. B., Box 27, Leesburg, Fla.

Galloway, Miss Laura, Okahumpka, Fla.
Galloway, J. R., Okahumpka, Fla.

Garrett, L., Orlando, Fla.

Gaston, M. M., Punta Gorda, Fla.

Gillett, M. E., Tampa, Fla.

Glynn, W. F., Crescent City, Fla.

Goodrich, Chas., Caruthersville, Mo.

Gore, Mahlon, Orlando, Fla.

Gowen, C. S., Crescent City, Fla.

Gowen, Mrs. C. ,S., Crescent City, Fla.

Grant, A. J., Dunedin, Fla.

Grantham, Benj., Sparr, Fla.

Graves, H. S., Gainesville, Fla.

Greene, ,Samuel Ward, East Greenwich, R. I
Griffing, A. M., Little River, Fla.

Griffing, Mrs. A. M., Little River, Fla.
Griffing, D. C., Jacksonville, Fla.

Grisham, Dr. J. K., Thonotosassa, Fla.

Grocott, W. H., 514 Monroe St., Jacksonville.
Fla.

Guilford, W. E., Brooksville, Fla.

Gurney, L. H., Merritt, Fla.

Hall, C. C., Bonaventure, Fla.

Hall, James, Pine, Fla.

Hallatt, Henry H., Ribera 21, Apartado 150.

Tampico, Tam, Mexico.

Hamm, H. O., Palatka, Fla.

Hamm, Warner T., Palatka, Fla.

Hammond, Benj., Fishkill-on-Hudson, N. Y.
Hardee, G. S., Rockledge, Fla.

Hardee, W. R., Jensen, Fla.

Harrington, A. B., Winter Haven. Fla.

Harvey, Mrs. H. H., Seffner, Fla.

Hassen, H., Jacksonville, Fla.

Hathaway, W. W., Jacksonville, Fla.

Haynes, B. W., Jacksonville, Fla.

Ilazen, D. E., Thonotosassa, Fla.

Heathcoat, W. E., St. Petersburg, Fla.

Heikes, W. T., Huntsville, Ala.

Helseth, O. O., Oslo, Fla-
Heritage, H. K., 121 Walnut, Philadelphia, Pa
Herman, J. B., 38 S. Union St., Rochester, N.Y.
Herman, H. A. Van, Santiago de las Vergas,
Cuba.

Hess, W. E., Mayaguez, Porto Rico.

Hibbard, E. C., Daytona Beach, Fla.

Hildrup, Mrs. Emma J., Welaka, Fla.

Hill, E. M-, ,South Jacksonville, FI#

Hinkley, B., Avon Park, Fla.


12


FLORIDA STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY.


Holbrook, T. T., Lakeland, Fla.

Holland, B. F., Bartow, Fla.

Hopkins, Mrs. Oscar, Guaybal, Havana Prov.,
Cuba.

Horton, C. E., Winter Haven, Fla.
Houghtaling, W. C., Box 774, Miami, Fla.
Howell, J. L., Dunedin, Fla.

Howes, Will, Port Orange, Fla.

Howes, Mrs. Will, Port Orange, Fla.

Hoyt, R. D., Clearwater, Fla.

Hubbard. E. Stuart, Federal Point, Fla.
Hubbard, Mrs. E. S., Federal Point, Fla.
Hughes, W. D. Miami, Fla.

Hume, Harold N., Glen St. Mary, Fla.

Hume, Mrs. H. Harold, Glen St. Mary, Fla.
Hume, E. G., Glen St. Mary, Fla.

Humphrey, A. S., Indianola, Fla.

Inman, S. C., Winter Haven, Fla.

Jernigan, W. P., Glen »St- Mary, Fla.

Jernigan, Mrs. W. P., Glen St. Mary, Fla.
Johnson, L. S., Largo, Fla.

Johnson, M. E., Palatka, Fla.

Jones. W. H., Orange Bend, Fla.

Keck, Irving, Bowling Green, Fla.

Kendig, John, 1220 Market St., Philadelphia,
Pa.

Kennerly, C. H.. Palatka, Fla.

Kerr, Mrs. Carrie L-, Hampton, Va.

Kilgore, B., Largo, Fla.

Kilgore, J. E., Largo. Fla.

Kilgore, S. H., Largo, Fla.

Kimbrough, J. W., Webster, Fla.

King, Wm., Avon Park, Fla.

Klemm, Richard, Winter Haven, Fla.

Klemm, Mrs. Marie, Winter Haven, Fla.

Knox, D. B., Bulow, Fla.

Kradwell, W. T., Wanwatosa, Wis.

Kress, Chas. G., Grand View-on-Hudson, N. Y.
Kroom, Jesse, New Smyrna, Fla.

Leach, Daniel, Winter Haven, Fla.

Leach, Robt., Annona, Fla.

Leatherman, J. R., Oakton, Va.

Leids, Eugene L., Eagle Lake, Fla.

Lewis, W. J., Limona, Fla.

Long, A. L., Gainesville, Fla.

Longley, N. H., St. Petersburg, Fla.

Longley, Mrs. N. H., St. Petersburg, Fla.

Love, »S. R., DeLand, Fla.

Lovell, C. P., Jacksonville, Fla.

Ludwig, R. E., St. Petersburg, Fla-
Luthge, Henry, New Smyrna, Fla.

McClelland, W. S., Eustis, Fla.

McCorkle, Arthur, New Smyrna, Fla.

McComb, Jas., 227 Larka St., Jacksonville, Fla.
McClees, Mrs. H. A., Ormond, Fla.


McDougal, Robt., 319 Postal Tel. Bldg., Chi¬
cago, Ill.

McQuarrie, C. K., Gainesville, Fla.

McIntyre, James, Miami, Fla.

Mcllwaine, R., Salisbury, Rhodesia, South Af¬
rica.

McLean, W. E., Grenada, Miss.

McMullen, R. L., Largo, Fla.

Macdonald, R. D., Winter Park, Fla.

Miace, J. P., Lake Helen, Fla.

Mace, L. P., Lake Helen, Fla.

MacGonigle, John N., Miami, Fla.

Mallett, C. M., Tampa, Fla.

Mann, E. MacN., Care R. G. Dun & Co.,
Chicago, Ill.

Manning, »S. D., New Smyrna, Fla.

Manz, Adolph, Eustis, Fla.

Mathis, W. B., Glen St. Mary, Fla.

Mathison, Hugh M., Cocoanut Grove, Fla.
Maul, Ed. N. Jacksonville, Fla.

Mead, Theo L., Oviedo, Fla.

Meishlahn, H., Clarcona, Fla.

Merrell, Herman, St. Petersburg, Fla.

Merrell, Mrs. Herman, St. Petersburg, Fla.
Middleton, W. C., St- Augustine, Fla.

Miller, C. E., Clarconia, Fla.

Mitchell, A. J., Jacksonville, Fla.

Montgomery, Chas., Buena Vista, Fla.

Moore, R. G-, Jacksonville, Fla.

Moore, R. S., Naomie, La.

More, Miss C. R., Eldred, Fla.

More, C. V., Walton, N. Y.

Morse, Fred S-, Miami, Fla.

Morton, P. S., Dunedin, Fla.

Moses, Wallace R., W. Palm Beach, Fla.

Moses, Mrs. Clara N., W. Palm Beach, Fla.
Moulie, E., Jacksonville, Fla-
Murphy, T. W., Largo, Fla.

Negus, C. R., Viking, Fla.

Nevins, Thos. F., 350 Clinton Brooklyn.
N. Y.

Nickerson, H. T., Winter Haven, Fla.

Nixon, L. R., Homestead, Fla.

Niles, L. D., Winter Haven, Fla.

Nordmann, Fred, New Smyrna, Fla.

Northrup, F. A., Herradura, Cuba.

O’Brien, W. S., Thonotosassa, Fla.

Osborne, F. B., Dunedin, Fla.

Overstreet, M. O., Orlando, Fla.

Page, W. A., 30 W. Lake St., Chicago, Ill.
Paine, B. L., Largo, Fla.

Painter, Miss Okie, Jacksonville, Fla.

Paterson, Miss Ulrica C., Pierson, Fla.
Patterson, Mrs. C. O., Jacksonville, Fla.
Patterson, B. B., Minneola, Fla.

Pelton, J. E., Potash, La.

Pence, Eugene, 992 Pine St., Oakland, Calif.
Pennock, H. S., West Jupiter, Fla.


FLORIDA /STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY.


13


Pennock, Mrs. H. S., West Jupiter. Fla.

Penny, N. O., Vero, Fla.

Perrin, R. G., Winter Haven, Fla.

Peters, Geo. T-, Geneva, Fla.

Pfyffer, John, Pulaski, Ind.

Phillips, *Samuel K., Matteawan, N. Y.

Phillips, Dr. P., Orlando, Fla.

Pierson, Peter, Pierson, Fla.

Pinellas Grove, Inc., 28 E. Jackson Boulevard,
Chicago, Ill.

Pink, Charles, Orlando, Fla.

Player, Harry, Tampa, Fla.

Porter, Mrs. M. L., Emeralda, Fla.

Post, John A., Belleair, Fla.

Produce News, Jacksonville, Fla.

Postlethwaite, San Jose, Cal.

Pugsley, Chas., Winter Haven, Fla.

Radclyffe Cadman Bros., Narcoossee, Fla.
Raymond, G. T., Owanita, Fla.

Reasoner, E. N., Oneco, Fla.

Reynolds, Wm., New Smyrna, Fla.

Reynolds, Mrs. Wim., New Smyrna, Fla.
Richardson, E. L., Avon Park, Fla.

Richardson, W. C., Tampa, Fla.

Richtmann, W. O., Satsuma Heights, Fla.
Ringdahl, G., White City, Fla.

Roberts, Fred, Palm Beach, Fla.

Robinson, T. Ralph, Terra Ceia, Fla.

Robinson, W. E., Palmetto, Fla.

Rollins, C. A., Thonotosassa, Fla.

Rose, R. E., Tallahassee, Fla.

Rose, Mrs. R. E., Tallahassee, Fla.

Ross, J. H., Winter Haven, Fla.

Rou, S. F., Lowell, Fla.

Rou, Mrs. S. F., Lowell, Fla.

Russell, Edward, Ormond, Fla.

Russell, F. G., 950 Riverside, Jacksonville, Fla.
Russell. Mrs. F. G., 950 Riverside, Jacksonville,
Fla.

Sampson, F. G., Quincy, Fla.

/Sampson, Mrs. F. G., Quincy, Fla.

/Sanderson, Mrs. R. C-, 2233 Hubbard, Jackson¬
ville, Fla.

Schabinger, John J., Box 162, Delray, Fla.
Schnobel, John, Exp. Station, Gainesville, Fla.
Schnarr, J. S., Orlando, Fla.

Schultz, H. F., Miami, Fla.

Scott, David, Arcadia, Fla.

>Scott. Mrs. John N., Gainesville, Fla.
Shepherd, S. P., Winter Park, Fla.

Sherman, W. M., Box 766, Havana, Cuba.
Shoemaker, R. H., Lindsay, Cal.

Shryrock, W. P., New Smyrna, Fla.

Shupe, E. P., Palmetto, Fla.

»Simon, Abe., Monticello, Fla.

Simpson, R. C., Monticello, Fla.

Sistrunk, S. T., Ocala, Fla.

Skinner, L. B., Dunedin, Fla.

Sly, E. R., Bay Shore, Mich.


Smith, Ernest F., 139 Adams St., Chicago,

in.

»Smith, Miss Sarah Cotton, Largo, Fla., Box 67.
Snow, Geo. E., Eastlake, Fla.

Snyder A. ,S., Box 193, St. Petersburg, Fla.
Spencer, Arthur P., Gainesville, Fla.

Spivey, T. A., Clearwater, Fla.

Stadil, Capt. C. E., White House, Fla.
^Standard Pecan Co., Monticello, Fla.

Stevens, H. B., DeLand, Fla.

Stevens, J. A., South Jacksonville, Fla.

Stevens, Roland E., Daytona, Fla.

Stewart, I. A., DeLand, Fla.

Stillman, H. Y., Daytona, Fla.

Stillman, F. A., Daytona, Fla.

Stockbridge, H. G. Atlanta, Ga.

Stouder, H. G., Eldred, Fla.

>Strait, O. W., Thonotosassa, Fla.

Street, A. W-, Ormond, Fla.

Strout, H. T., Fruitland Park, Fla.

Sundell, Rev. John F., Lake Mary, Fla.

Taber, Mrs. G. L., Glen St. Mary, Fla.

Talton, E. H., DeLand, Fla.

Tenney, J. T., Federal Point, Fla.

Tenney, Mrs. J. T., Federal Point, Fla.
Thompson, C. H., Winter Haven, Fla.
Tillinghast, B. F., Crescent City, Fla.
Tillinghast, Mrs. B. F., Crescent City, Fla.
Tillinghast, Miss Helen, Crescent City, Fla.
Tinker, H. G., Reddick, Fla.

Tischler, P., Jacksonville, Fla.

Torrey, R. A., Seminole, Fla.

Townsend, C. Morot, 500 N. Broad St., Phil¬
adelphia, Pa.

Troxler, T. W., Ocala, Fla.

Truitt, A. M., Brooksville, Fla.

Tucker, Miss Helen, Merritt, Fla.

Tucker, R. M., Orange City, Fla.

Tussey, H. H., Wymy, Pa.

Tyler, A., Glen St. Mary, Fla.

Vernon, J. J., Gainesville, Fla.

Wakelin, Amos, Land Title Bldg., Philadel¬
phia, Pa.

Wakelin, G. M., Tavares, Fla.

Wakelin, Mrs. G. M., Tavares, Fla.

Warner, ,S. C., Palatka, Fla.

Warner, Miss Helen G., Palatka, Fla.

Watts, B. F., Leesburg, Fla.

Weeks, J. M., Punta Gorda, Fla.

Wegemann. A. H., Watertown, Wis.
Westlake, J. Willis, Lake Helen, Fla.
Whidden, Wm. W-, Punta Gorda, Fla.

Whipp, C. Leslie, Jacksonville, Fla.
Whitcomb, H. R., Tangerine, Fla.

White, Herbert C., Dewitt, Ga.

White, Miss Lilia M., Dupont, Fla.
Whitehurst, A. A., Largo, Fla.

Whitehurst, E. E., Dunedin, Fla.

Wickerson, H. G., Winter Haven, Fla.


14


FLORIDA STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY.


Wightman, L., Box 576, Tampa. Fla-
Williams, H. S., Rockledge, Fla.

Willis, R. F., Palmetto, Fla.

Willis, Francis L., Sutherland, Fla.
Wilmshurst, H. G., DeLand, Fla-
Wilson, C. H., Clermont, Fla.

Wilson, John, Box 513, Sanford, Fla.
Wilson, L. A., Clermont, Fla.

Wilson, W. N., Gainesville, Fla-
Withers. I. N., Lady Lake, Fla.
Wolfe, J. B., Houston, Texas.


Wolfe, R. L., Glen St. Mary, Fla.

Wright, Edgar A., Tampa, Fla.

Wright, W. W-, Orlando, Fla.

Wyckoff, John S., Citra, Fla.

Young, Albert B., 1032 Niagara St., Buffalo,
N. Y.

Young, G. F., McKinley, Isle of Pines, W. I.
Yothers, W. W., Orlando, Fla.

Zimmerman, M., Ormond, Fla.


Proceedings of the Twenty-fourth
Annual Meeting of the Florida
State Horticultural Society


After visiting a number of Florida’s most progressive cities, the members of the Florida State Horticultural Society turned their faces toward Jacksonville to hold their twenty-fourth annual meeting within the gates of Florida’s metropolis.
The attendance was not as large as on previous occasions, when the meetings were held in Jacksonville, or as large as when held in some of the smaller places.
This lack of attendance is partly due to the fact that practically no reduction in transportation rates were given the mem¬
bers. A small reduction was promised provided there were 200 members in at¬
tendance who actually reached Jackson¬
ville by rail or steamer, and this number did not attend, hence no reduction was allowed.

Jacksonville, however, was not behind in her usual hospitality and looking after the interests and pleasure of her visitors.
Between meetings some of the members were treated to auto rides and had other entertainment furnished them, but the crowning entertainment was given by the
Jacksonville Board of Trade in furnish¬
ing all members in attendance an excur¬


sion to Atlantic Beach over the East
Coast railway with a dinner at the fa¬
mous Atlantic Beach Hotel. Notwith¬
standing the morning was rainy and dis¬
agreeable, and the outlook not very prom¬
ising, over a hundred of the members en¬
joyed the trip and every one was loud in their praise of the splendid dinner that was served by Mrs. H. M. Stanford, pro¬
prietor of this magnificent seaside hotel.

After dinner a short session was held in the casino and members returned to the city in ample time for their supper and to attend the evening meeting.

The evening session was largely taken up by discussion of the horticultural bill,
so much so that Mr. C. H. Hoyt, Super¬
intendent of Road Construction of the
Department of Agriculture was unable to deliver his address, very much to the regret of many who attended especially to hear it.

When the time for choosing the next place of meeting came up there was con¬
siderable interest as the good people of
Gainesville were anxious to have the meeting there. Miami had sent up a delegation armed with the necessary pa-








i6


FLORIDA STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY.


pers, and Palatka came in as a surprise with full fledged invitations. Gainesville very gracefully dropped out and left the
. contest between Miami and Palatka, Mi¬
ami winning by only a small majority.

The next meeting, therefore, will be held at the phenomenal city of Miami,
next May, and if the good people of the
East Coast do as well as they did on a previous occasion it will mark the larg¬


est attendance of any meeting up to that time. It is expected by that time the rail¬
road “over the sea” will be completed.

The members expressed themselves as well pleased with the royal entertainment given them by the people of Jacksonville and the Jacksonville Board of Trade,
which kept up its reputation of not do¬
ing things by halves.


Minutes


FIRST DAY.

Evening Session.

Call to Order, President H. Harold
Hume, Glen St. Mary.

Address of Welcome on Behalf of the
City—Mayor W. S. Jordan, Jacksonville.

Response—Prof. P. H. Rolfs, Gaines¬
ville.

Address of Welcome in Behalf of the
Board of Trade—President F. P. Con-
roy, Jacksonville.

Response—Mr. G. L. Taber, Glen St.
Mary.

President’s Annual Address—Prof. H.
Harold Hume.

Introduction of Question Box.

Social Hour.

SECOND DAY.

Morning Session.

Address, “Brief History of Florida
Entomology” — Dr. E. W. Berger,
Gainesville.


Discussion.

Motion carried that the Chair appoint a Committee to draft a set of resolutions to be forwarded to the President of the
University, asking that a course be in¬
augurated to instruct in the proper meth¬
ods of controling insect pests. Committee appointed—Messrs. Skinner, Conner and
Driscoll.

Insects and Diseases—Prof. H. S.
Fawcett, Gainesville.

Discussion.

Address, “Recent Results of Spraying
Experiments for the Control of the
Whitefly”—W. W. Yothers, Orlando.

Discussion.

Tropical Fruits—Mrs. P. H. Rolfs,
Gainesville.

Afternoon Session.

Address, “The Florida Fruit Ex¬
change”—R. P. Burton, Tampa.

Adoption of Resolution presented by the Board of Trade, Jacksonville, Flor¬
ida, approving the bill before the legis-




FLORIDA STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY.


17


lature permitting counties to issue bonds for the erection of school buildings and school equipment.

Address, “Packing of Citrus Fruits”—
W. C. Temple, Tampa.

Discussion.

Appointment of Committee to take up the matter of adopting a uniform grade to be used in the State of Florida, known as the Florida State Horticultural So¬
ciety grade. Committee appointed—
Messrs. Skinner, Felt, Hart and Thomp¬
son.

Appointment of Committee on Final
Resolutions — Messrs. Hubbard, Ells¬
worth and Floyd.

Method of Handling Citrus Groves—

G. M. Wakelin, Lane Park.

Evening Session.

Address, “Horticultural Wanderings in
Oriental Fields”—Dr. William C. Rich¬
ardson, Tampa.

Discussion.

Address, “Diseases of Plants due to
Malnutrition — Prof. B. F. Floyd,
Gainesville.

Fertilizers—A. W. Blair, Gainesville.

Ornamentals—J. C. Bates, Lake City.

H. S. Pennock, Jupiter.

THIRD DAY.

Excursion to Atlantic Beach.

i

Evening Session.

Report of Secretary.

Report of Treasurer.


Report of Executive Committee.

Election of Officers:

President—Mr. H. Harold Hume.

First Vice-President—Mr. William

C. Temple.

Second Vice-President—Mr. H. B.

Stevens.

Third Vice-President—Mr. E. V.

Blackman.

Secretary—Mr. E. O. Painter.

Treasurer—Mr. W. S. Hart.

Executive Committee—Prof. P. H.

Rolfs, Mr. E. S. Hubbard, Mr.

G. L. Taber.

Selection of next place of meeting—
Miami.

Address, “Weather Bureau Work in
Florida”—A. J. Mitchell, Jacksonville.

Report of Committee appointed to draft resolutions to be forwarded to the
President of the University of Florida concerning a short course on the treat¬
ment of insects and fungous diseases.

Report of Legislative Committee.

Discussion.

Appointment of Committee to consid¬
er the bill presented by the Legislative
Committee — Messrs. Gillette, Taber,
Stewart, Painter, Conner and Felt.

Motion carried approving Bill No. 140,
introduced by Mr. Massey, prohibiting the sale and transportation of immature citrus fruits.

Report of Committee on Necrology.

Report of Committee on Final Reso¬
lutions.

Motion to Adjourn.


Address of Welcome


Mayor W. S. Jordan.


Mr. President, Ladies and Gentlemen,

Members of the Florida State Horti¬
cultural Society :

I dislike very much to have to come,
on an occasion of this kind, with any apologies, but possibly some of you are aware that today has been rather an eventful one in my experience, and the past two or three weeks have been almost as strenuous as today has been. I simply ran up here to be with you for a few minutes without having had the opportu¬
nity of giving any thought of preparation as to what I should say, except to assure you that we are always glad to extend to you and to all visitors a most hearty and cordial welcome to Jacksonville. We feel that Jacksonville can always do its part towards making an occasion of this kind a success. We have everything to render the delegates comfortable and our citizens have always been ready to do what they could to make their stay pleasant and profitable.

I am sure that there is no society that is engaged in an occupation or profession,
if it may be so termed, that contributes more to the happiness and comfort than this association. The fruits and flowers that adorn our yards, or are put upon our tables, serves for such beautiful decoration, and add so materially to our


welfare that we are interested in the gath¬
ering of your society at which means can be devised that better results can be ob¬
tained by which your profits and pleasures can be multiplied. I am sure these meet¬
ings can result only in good where the exchange and interchange of ideas, the passing of experiences and the lending of theories will assist each and every one of you when you return to your respective homes.

I truly hope that your meeting will be not only of profit but of pleasure, and, as said in the outset, we are thoroughly pleased to have you with us; we will do what we can to make your stay pleasant,
and I trust you will return to your homes with only pleasant recollections of your visit to our city.

I regret that I shall have to leave you,
but there is a large crowd down at my headquarters and I promised them I
would return as soon as I had assured you of our welcome, and, naturally, I feel a little degree of interest in the result. I
hope you will excuse my leaving you so soon. I felt that I should not be doing my duty to myself and to the city of which I am mayor had I not come up even for these few moments to extend to you the heartiest greetings of the city of
Jacksonville.



Response to Address of Welcome


Prof. P. H. Rolfs.


Mr. President , Ladies and Gentlemen,
Members of the Florida State Horti¬
cultural Society :

I am very sure we are all much pleased to be present here in Jacksonville at this meeting. We know, Mayor Jordan,
whenever we come to Jacksonville, the latch-string is on the outside. Jackson¬
ville has always had a welcoming hand outstretched to us and is ready to receive us at any time. Other cities, big or small,
as they may be, have occasionally hung their latch-strings on the outside, but,
Mayor Jordan, your city has said, “Come any time.'’

This reminds me very much of the sit¬
uation the young Jew was in when he was elected to his first club. Meeting one of the members of the club, and not know¬
ing just exactly what he ought to say, he remarked: “The club is a very good thing to belong to. You can always go to the club when you can’t go nowhere else.” That’s the way with Jacksonville;
we can always come to Jacksonville. We have been told that a good many times.
We have acted upon its invitation seven times; this is the eighth. Eight times out of twenty-four, that’s doing pretty well.

This society was founded in 1888, and it had to get some experience before it could trust itself in the bustling metrop¬


olis of this State. It was not until 1895
that we did commit ourselves to meet here—shall I say with the barbarians or the city folks? Then we came back the next year. Then we loafed around over the State a little while and came back again in 1899 an d again in 1900, and if it had not been for the serious fire Jack¬
sonville would have been our host again in 1901, so that really we should say that
Jacksonville had already had eight meet¬
ings.

In 1904, 1905 and 1906 we were back in Jacksonville again. In 1893 we wer T
clear over toward the west to Pensacola,,
but we were not quite satisfied. Then we went on down to the south, but they were not quite good enough, so we came back to Jacksonville, and here we are today.

Ladies and Gentlemen, I want to say that Jacksonville is the city of cities in the South. It is the live city. It is the city that does things. It does things that a city twice its size would hesitate to un¬
dertake ; even that big fire ten years ago,
instead of stopping its growth, served only to warm things up to greater achieve¬
ments. It is our State’s metropolis. It is the biggest port south of Baltimore.

As a matter of fact, when you can’t get anything you want in Atlanta or Chi¬
cago or New York, just write to Jackson¬
ville and you will get it. If it is repairs




20


FLORIDA STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY.


to your reaper, or ten pounds of fertilizer,
or ten tons, or ten carloads, just write to
Jacksonville and you will get it.

Jacksonville is a city of tremendous commercial enterprise. We have not any rival to Jacksonville in the State, and we have not its equal in the South, unless we go as far North as Baltimore. How many of you know that Jacksonville is the leading city of the South in educa¬
tional work? The Jacksonville High
School is doing something very few in the South are doing. They are teaching our young women just going out of girl¬
hood that most important of womanly duties—how to be good housekeepers. In other words, they are teaching the girls of today who are to be the women of tomorrow, the branch of education called domestic science. If any of our young ladies have time, the teacher of domestic science will be glad to have you visit them. We were there in a large crowd week before last, and the young girls were going along, attending to their work just


as though nobody was there. That teacher is the ideal teacher. She had taught the girls to go about their business without the least trace of self-conscious¬
ness. I would advise you very strongly to visit the High School and take the les¬
sons home, and I am sure the mayor meant exactly what he said, that the city welcomes us here, not only as an associa¬
tion, but individually.

I hope at some future day we will find in the High School, not only of Jackson¬
ville, but of every town in the State of
Florida, not only a domestic science class for the girls, but an agricultural course for training our boys along agricultural and horticultural lines. Such a depart¬
ment ought to be in every one of our large High Schools.

I want again to thank you, Mayor Jor¬
dan, for your kind expressions, and I am very sure that we will all learn, before the end of this meeting, that the words are sincere, and that you mean exactly what you say.


Board of Trade’s Address of Welcome


F. P. Conroy.


Prof. Hume: I would like to call your attention to one fact, before the next part of our program; that is, that the liveliest thing in all of live Jacksonville is the
Jacksonville Board of Trade. I had an opportunity to see it at work and know something of what it is doing, and I am very glad to be able to introduce to you at this time the president of the Jackson¬
ville Board of Trade, Mr. F. P. Conroy.

Mr. President and Members of the Flor¬
ida State Horticultural Society:

I am very sorry indeed that the mayor was so busy that he could not remain with us tonight. You are aware of the fact that he is going through a very trying and anxious time, and could hardly spare even the short time that he was with us.
It is quite an honor to be mayor of Jack¬
sonville, and worth working hard for.

I have listened to what the presiding officer had to say when he introduced the president of this Board, and have about concluded that the best thing to do would be for me to resign, and suggest that we elect him president from now on, for he is an earnest and eloquent Jacksonville booster. And the remarks of Prof. Rolfs certainly indicate that he is in the same class. I remember seeing Prof. Rolfs


some time ago when he was engaged in
Horticultural work. I think I met him down between Miami and Cocoanut
Grove. However, the Gainesville citizens who are here tonight had better not tell the people at home what he has been say¬
ing about Jacksonville; they will probably make it too warm for him, as he is un¬
questionably a Jacksonville booster.

You know, it seems to me that an ad¬
dress of welcome from the Board of
Trade is hardly necessary. You all know you are welcome. So I am just going to take advantage of the opportunity by ig¬
noring the subject assigned to me and tell you about one or two other matters that are near and dear to me and to the other members of the Jacksonville Board of
Trade.

Prof. Rolfs spoke about schools. That is something that appeals to me, and I am sure appeals to you. It seems particu¬
larly appropriate that something should be said now. I want to say that if there is any one thing that Floridians should work for, it is for better schools. You people from the rural districts who want to make good and useful citizens of your children, you are the people who ought to help the people of Jacksonville, and the
State, to get direct and beneficial results



22


FLORIDA STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY.


in educational matters. Now, I am here to ask that you do something along that line. The Jacksonville Board of Trade has been trying to accomplish something,
and I am in receipt of a telegram from
Tallahassee telling me that a measure we wanted to get through is going to get through the House, but is meeting with considerable opposition in the Senate. The measure in question is one to help the pub¬
lic schools of Florida. I have no doubt that the same conditions must prevail to a greater or less extent in every part of the State. We find we can bond our county, if you please, to build good roads,
to build public buildings, and for various other purposes, but we cannot bond our county to build good schools to give our children the education which is theirs by right. Now, the question is: Are you people of Florida going to stand for it?
Are you going to stand up and fight for what is right? Are you going to make up your minds that you are going to bet¬
ter these conditions? The Board of
Trade has pledged its support and we are going to send a delegation to Tallahassee,
and I hope it is not out of place for me to ask that this Association take some ac¬
tion on the subject. It may not be a hor¬
ticultural subject, but nevertheless it is a subject which is more vital, perhaps, than one that is strictly horticultural, for your children are concerned, and you are doubtless as much interested in having good schools as you are in having your farms run properly.

Another matter to which I want to call your attention, is the question of good roads. There are some people I have known who feel that good roads would benefit only the automobilists. It is true


that the autoists would like good roads,
but I maintain that we need good roads in Florida to help the farming industry,
more than for any other reason. I main¬
tain that members of the Horticultural so¬
ciety are more interested in good roads throughout the State of Florida than are people who own automobiles in the large cities throughout the State, and it is be¬
cause of that fact, because I believe it will help the farming industries, that I
want to see this society take a deep inter¬
est in the good roads movement. I favor the bonding of the State for the purpose of building a system of State highways.
I believe that it should be done.

If you make up your minds that you are in favor of good roads, write to your representatives about it, and there is bound to be something done. To illus¬
trate the need of good roads, take Duval county, for instance. This county has nothing, from an agricultural point of view. You people from the farming counties of the State know this is true.
Now, I maintain that it is purely and simply because we have not a system of good roads. If the people in Duval county knew there was a network of good roads, so that after their foodstuff was raised they could bring it to market, the whole country would be materially bene¬
fited.

I would like very much to see your society take some action on the good roads movement. I believe you have a speaker on that subject. There has been a bill introduced in the Legislature at Tal¬
lahassee with reference to this matter,
and I trust you will all see the necessity of acting, both as a society and as indi¬
viduals.


FLORIDA STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY.


23


We feel that the Florida State Horti¬
cultural Society owes no apology to the city of Jacksonville for coming here. It was my pleasure, not many years ago, to be connected with an industry that came directly in contact with the farming industry of this State. I was in the fertilizer business and often crossed bats with my friend, Mr.
E. O. Painter, about prices on acid phos¬
phate, high-grade potash, etc. I know whereof I speak when I tell you that the members of your association have helped
Jacksonville to a wonderful extent. We used to ship phosphate rock to Eastern points to have it reduced to acid phosphate,
and then it was shipped back to Florida and put into the ground. Phosphate rock is no longer sent to Eastern ports, but made into acid phosphate and put back into the ground without leaving Florida.
Where we formerly found it necessary to go to other ports for potash and kainit,
today we are able to bring it direct to
Jacksonville from foreign lands. Of course, there are many reasons that have brought this about, but the primary rea¬
son is this: the members of the Florida
Horticultural Society and the others en¬
gaged in the same line of work, have made the fruit and vegetable products of
Florida so much in demand that these other things were brought about as a mat¬
ter of course.

Only a few years ago, Florida depend¬
ed primarily and almost solely upon its fruit industry. Only a few years ago,


when a man sent his fruit to the North he took the money that he received for it and went North himself to spend it, and figured that was all he had to do.

To my mind, a blessing in disguise came with the freeze. With that calam¬
ity the optimist came to the front and said, “Florida is hard hit, but she is not dead yet. She is going to be a great
State in the raising of vegetable products.
Just watch,” and then he put his shoulder to the wheel to help make his hopes come true. They did come true, and look now at our diversified crops. There is hardly any time of the whole year but that some¬
thing is moving from here, and that is brought about, to my mind, by the mem¬
bers of this Florida Horticultural Society and the people whom you represent.

The Jacksonville Board of Trade has arranged for a little excursion for you,
and at the proper time our secretary will tell you about the details. We extend you a welcome, because we are glad to meet you, as members of this association,
and as men. We know that your meet¬
ings bring about a vast deal of good to your industry, and through you, to the citizens of the entire State. We want you to make yourselves at home in the Jack¬
sonville Board of Trade building. Use our offices, our employes, etc., and in every way we ask that you make your¬
selves thoroughly at home. I hope you will have a delightful time, and I thank you for your attention.


Response


Mr. President of the Jacksonville Board of Trade, Mr. President of the Florida
State Horticultural Society , Ladies and
Gentlemen :

As your president has told you, I am acting as a substitute. Now, it is some¬
times hard to act as a substitute, because you do not know what the other fel¬
low would do or say. It was manifestly impossible for me to write out anything in advance, because I did not know what the president of the Jacksonville Board of
Trade would say. He has certainly given us a very cordial, warm welcome to Jack¬
sonville, and, Mr. President, it was what we expected. We have received just the same hearty welcome every time we have been here.

Ten years ago, just at the time of your fire, we were expecting to hold a meeting in Jacksonville. I was president at that time, and the arrangements had been made, the railroad rates had been en¬
gaged, and everything was just about con¬
cluded for holding our meeting here. It was to be held three weeks from the time your fire occurred. We were compelled,
of course, to change. There was no place left in Jacksonville to hold the meeting.
Our executive committee empowered me to do what was best in the matter, and we decided upon St. Augustine. Ladies


Taber.

and gentlemen, I shall never forget the action of the Jacksonville Board of Trade through Capt. Garner, its president, and what he told me when I advised him that we had decided to go to St. Augustine.
He said: “Mr. Taber, please tell your society and the good people of St. Augus¬
tine, that in addition to the loss which
Jacksonville has suffered-by fire, she feels the loss of the Florida State Horticultural
Society.”

Coming from the Jacksonville Board of
Trade, through its president, at such a time, you can imagine how these words-
impressed me. It shows the interest which the Board of Trade has always taken in our society. The sentiments were mag¬
nanimous, they were unexpected, because at such a time it was hardly to be ex¬
pected that the Board of Trade, or any¬
one connected with it, could give thought to the Florida State Horticultural Society.

We have had other samples of your courtesy. We have appreciated them. We recognize that Jacksonville of today is a wonder. We all know that. I cannot help marvelling at the city, when thinking of what she has suffered in the past.
There was the epidemic, which was such a fearful thing to undergo at the time it happened; there was the fire, which is now almost forgotten; and in this same connection, I thought of what our State



FLORIDA STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY.


25


Horticultural Society has been through.
It is rather unpleasant to remember that we have had freezes in Florida, but some-
of us remember them. But undoubtedly it is a good thing that everything is not smooth sailing all the time. If it were,
I don’t know what would become of us.

I think a good many of us have been in the same position as the little boy
James Whitcomb Riley wrote about when he saw the effect of an earthquake. There was something pretty terrible to it. He saw the chasms in the ground where the earth had been rift, and this is the way he expressed it:

“What’s a boy to think,

And what’s a boy to do,

And where’s a boy a going
When the world busts through?”

Some of us have seen the world when it looked as though it had “busted through” once or twice, and it was not pleasant, but at the same time we have gotten into pretty good times now, and
Florida as a whole is what may be deem¬
ed prosperous.

My colleague has spoken about Jack¬
sonville, and expressed the sentiments of everyone of us as to its being such a won¬
derful city. I wonder how many of us really know what a wonderful State we have behind this city? I wonder how many of us know that our coast line, for example, 1,100 miles, is equivalent to the coast line of ten States to the north of


us ? If one were to start at our northwest extremity and go to Fernandina on the northeast, along the coast, he would have traveled practically 1,100 miles, and if he traveled up the coast an equal distance he would reach Cape Cod, Mass. With such an extent of sea coast, there is bound to be a most wonderful climate. With its climate, and location, and isothermal lines running in such a way, we can grow fruits not generally grown in any other part of the United States. In that area we grow so many different fruits that I
will not take time to mention them. But we all admit we have a most wonderful fruit-growing country. It is, of course,
in connection with the growing of fruit that we are chiefly interested, but, as Mr.
Conroy has stated, there are other things besides fruit we are interested in, and I
am sure that our society will agree that this matter of schools is something in which we are greatly interested. I can say the same of the good roads move¬
ment. We are to have an address by Mr.
Hoyt, the superintendent of construction of the United States Department of Ag¬
riculture, with stereopticon views, so you can see, Mr. Conroy, we are interested in that subject.

I do not know that I have anything more to say, Mr. President, except to ex¬
tend to the Board of Trade and to Pres¬
ident Conroy the most sincere thanks of this society for the hearty welcome they have given us.


President’s Annual Address


Prof. H. Harold Hume.


Members of the Florida State Horticul¬
tural Society , Ladies and Gentlemen :

It is twenty-four years since this so¬
ciety had its beginning, and those twenty-
four years have been years of change,
year of growth, years of progress. As a society, we have seen many new horticul¬
tural industries born in our State, grow strong and sturdy in their old age; we have seen some grow to great, yet incom¬
plete stature; we have seen others fail and die. There have indeed been great changes in the complexion of our horti¬
cultural industries during this period.

As a result of all this, the problems which confronted the -founders of our so¬
ciety are not those which disturb our peace of mind at this time. New prob¬
lems of insects and diseases, of cold and drought, and new types of marketing problems have arisen. And these changes must still go on, for the knowledge of living things is never finished. There is always more to be learned, better ways to be found, new problems to be solved,
higher levels to be reached. The prob¬
lems and difficulties of a few vears hence

m/

will not be those of today. They will be different, just as ours are different now from those of twenty-odd years ago.
Surely, if variety is the spice of life, we have it in our chosen field.


It may appear to some of us that the difficulties by which we are surrounded are greater than those which beset those engaged in any other commercial enter¬
prise; that we, as tillers of the soil, de¬
pendent in a large measure upon the va¬
garies of nature, have a larger unknown quantity in our equation than have those engaged in other gainful occupations. If you will sit down and carefully consider the question, you will find that such is not the case, and be sure if you trade places with him who is engaged in other lines of work, you will prove to yourself that every line of human endeavor is beset by its own peculiar trials and difficulties. The manufacturer has his labor problems, the railroad man his rate and transportation troubles, and the broker his financial trials. It is said that politicians have troubles of their own, and men in public life today are not without their detrac¬
tors.

Far be it from me to minimize the dif¬
ficulties encountered in horticultural work either in this State or anywhere else, but
I do mean to say that these difficulties are not insurmountable, and I do mean to say that they are no more numerous,
and no more troublesome, than those en¬
countered by average man in other walks of life.



FLORIDA STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY.


27


Those of you who are older will bear me out when I say that many of the trou¬
bles which gave promise of becoming real and grievous have faded away, and many insects and diseases which once disturbed us greatly are now relatively unimpor¬
tant. Let me refer more particularly to our citrus and other trees.

Foot-rot, or mal-di-goma, owing to the planting of budded citrus trees on resist¬
ant stocks, has become an almost un¬
known disease. Had we continued to plant seedling orange trees it might have done for Florida what it once did for others of the world’s citrus districts—it might have wiped out the citrus industry.
The very fact that sour orange trees were so numerous in the early days in districts where our citrus culture was first estab¬
lished was a providential provision of no mean importance. In using them for stocks, the early growers acted more wise¬
ly than they knew.

Writing in 1883, Moore says: “Per¬
haps the most formidable disease which lias yet made its appearance is the ‘Die-
back.’ In 1900 it was still a disorder of considerable importance. Yet I venture to say that in 1911 it is comparatively unknown. More intelligent culture, fer¬
tilizing and selection of soil and perhaps
•other and unknown forces have driven it out. Will it ever again become so prevalent as it once was? It may, but I
believe not. Other and newer diseases are attracting our attention, but so ably are these being handled by our investiga¬
tors and so accurately and quickly are their causes being determined that I be¬
lieve their natural course will be greatly shortened.


Among our newer fruits the pecan is assuming a place of very considerable im¬
portance. Early in the last decade pecan rosette, a mysterious disease, aroused the attention of pecan planters. It appeared to be gaining headway at an alarming rate. Today it is far less common, and I
verily believe that within a few years it will have almost disappeared. Pecan scab,
another pecan disease, was pointed out as a serious menace to the welfare of the in¬
dustry. And a real menace it is to any variety of pecan susceptible to the whole force of its attack. Such a variety is doomed. But it has been pointed out in the last two or three years that certain va¬
rieties are entirely exempt from its at¬
tacks and some others so slightly affected that they may for all practical purposes be classed with the immune varieties. The way out is clear.

Already we are at the dawn of a new era in the handling of plant diseases. I11
this new era the resistant and immune plant will take the place of the suscepti¬
ble weakling that succumbs to the inroads of its fungous enemies. A stronger race of plants will be reared to take their places.

Turning from the fungous to our in¬
sect problems. When the long scale made its appearance at Mandarin, Fla., about
1857, it was believed that it threatened the destruction of the citrus industrv.

J

While I do not wish to minimize the in¬
jury caused by this or any other insect,
yet the industry has survived the attacks of this and related scale insects. Years ago it was pointed out by Rolfs and oth¬
ers that various scale insects were in nearly all cases being ably taken care of


28


FLORIDA STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY.


by various parasitic fungous diseases.
Our knowledge of these effective controll¬
ing agents has been greatly added to by
Berger, Fawcett and other more recent workers. Even in the case of the white fly, our most serious citrus insect, nature,
undisturbed, has done as much in effective control as we have done. I believe I am well within the range of reason when I
say that some day it will be relegated to a much less important place among our insect pests than it now occupies, and that day is not far distant.

Witness the rejuvenation of the whole peach industry throughout the Eastern
United States since the introduction and use of lime sulphur spray. Before this mixture came into general use, the San
Jose scale was rightly a dreaded insect.
But this spray has robbed it of its ter¬
rors. The live and up-to-date peach grower has no fear of its attacks, and those who suffer from it now are the in¬
competent and the lazy.

The behavior of insects and diseases under natural and normal conditions,
i. e., when not interfered with by man,
is much like the movement of a wave upon the sea. They have their period of rise, when their work attracts most at¬
tention ; their period of stationary exist¬
ence, when the battling forces of nature are holding them in their grip, and finally their period of decline, when they sink away into the ocean of innocuous things.
When man steps in, the balance of things is upset, and fortunately fumigation and spraying have sometimes upset the bal¬
ance distinctly in favor of the grower.

Within the last few years our handling and marketing problems have received


more searching investigation than ever before. We had learned how to produce;
we had forgotten how to pick, pack and sell. The result was more disheartening than if the fruit had never grown upon the tree. But in this particular a new rule of things has come and is coming into being. Transportation is being im¬
proved. Some things still remain to be perfected, but the outlook is hopeful.
New methods of marketing have been in¬
troduced, tried and proven good. Some may not agree with the Citrus Exchange in its workings, yet I venture the asser¬
tion that the Exchange has exercised a beneficial influence on the handling and marketing of all citrus fruits in our State.
And in conjunction with our selling plans who can over-estimate the value of the careful investigations of our fruit hand¬
ling methods during the last four or five seasons ?

Rain does not always fall when needed.
Long days and weeks pass, and yet no rain. We have learned that cultivation,
frequent and thorough, helps mightily.
But under some conditions even this is not sufficient to prevent our fruit trees from injury and our prospective crop from de¬
struction. But the manufacturers of en¬
gines and pumping machinery have made tit possible, at comparatively small ex¬
pense, to make it rain when there are nc>
clouds.

Cold weather is to be dreaded. In this connection let me say that ninety per cent,
or more of all the fruit districts in Amer¬
ica are so located as to be liable to dam¬
age from frost and freeze. We have company with the peach grower, the apple orchardist and the producer of


FLORIDA STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY.


every fruit grown in this country. We may envy others, but they, too, have their troubles. But we are taking a renewed interest in frost protection methods.
Crude oil, in pots of various designs, is being effectively used. Our weather bu¬
reau is at our service, and forewarned is forearmed. Here, too, there is a way out.

We have difficulties to overcome, it is true, but never before have there been so many agents at work to help the fruit grower in mastering his problems. Never before have these agents applied them¬
selves more diligently or more effectively than now. Our own experiment station is better housed, better equipped, better manned and more effective in its opera¬
tions than ever before. The Agricultu¬
ral Department at Washington has,
through its various activities in this State in the last few years, greatly assisted us in our labors. We know so much more of the nature of our problems and how to solve them that I sometimes wonder whether we always do as well as we know. We are constantly searching for more knowledge and in our eagerness to gain more, we fail to apply what we al¬


2 >

ready have. The application of knowl¬
edge already at our disposal would go a long way toward ameliorating conditions of which we are apt to complain.

We know the past, we have a working knowledge of the present, but it is well that the future, with all its difficulties, is held from us. We should hesitate, falter and fail, if looking into the dim future we might be given to see the troubles which will doubtless arise in our chosen field. But we are assured of this, a nat¬
ural part of the development of the hu¬
man race, that “as our days are, so shall our strength be,” strength of brawn and brain, strength of science in resistless operation, strength of deep and knowing insight into the prin¬
ciples and forces which govern the behavior of our plants in their manifold and complex environment of sun and wind, water and soil. All sound knowl¬
edge is strength, ignorance is weakness,
and in the surmounting of our difficulties our ignorance is giving away to knowl¬
edge, our weakness is being turned into strength.
