
Digitized by the Internet Archive in 2019 with funding from
BHL-SIL-FEDLINK


LIBRARY
NEW YORK
BOTANICAL
GARDEN


*


https://archive.org/details/proceedingsofann7189unse



Dudley W. Adams,

President Florida State Horticultural Society.

















I








<o

4;

I

w <o

q £


• ^
% ^


h






















































































































PROCEEDINGS

OF THE

SEVENTH ANNUAL MEETING


OF THE



HELD AT


JACKSONVILLE, FLA.,


April 10th, 11th, 12th and 13th, 1894.


LIBRARY

Compiled by the Secretary. id' &

_______ GARDEN


PUBLISHED BY THE DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE

lx. B. Wombwell, Commissioner.


TALLAHASSEE. FLA.
FLORIDIAN PRINTING COMPANY.

1894 .





























XP

v.7

i&<n

if SEVENTH ANNUAL MEETING Of THE


Letter of Transmittal.


Florida State Horticultural Society,
Secretary’s Office,

Glen St. Mary, Fla., July 24, 1894. J

lion. L. B. Wombwell , Co?nmissioner of Agriculture for the
State of Florida:

Dear Sir: —Some time since I had the honor to communi¬
cate to you the Executive Committee’s acceptance of your very liberal offer to publish the proceedings of the seventh annual meeting of the Florida State Horticultural Society;
in conformity thereto I herewith transmit to you the report as compiled for publication. Yours respectfully,

A. H. Manville,

Secretary.




ijs"- !>4 Lle _£'x‘i So-


FLORIDA STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY.


Y


LIBRARY
NEW YORK

botanical

GARDEN


Page.


Letter of Transmittal. iv

Constitution. vi

Officers, including Standing and Special Committees. vii

List of Members, Honorary, Life and Annual. x

Prefatory Note. xv

Synopsis of Proceedings. 1

Address of Welcome. 5

Response to Address of Welcome. 6

President’s Annual Address. 9

Reports of the Secretary and the Treasurer. 14

Cataloguing Our Fruits. 16

Florida and Texas. 17

The Introduction of New Fruits and Plants. 23

Grape Growing for Profit. 25

Marketing Grapes. 27

Discussion on Grapes. 28

Pineapples. 35

The Kaki (Japan Persimmon). 40

Peaches and Plums. 44

Discussion on Peaches and Plums. 48

Pears. 52

Strawberries... 57

Varieties of Oranges, and Their Derivation. 59

Results in Crossing Navel Oranges. 62

Experiments in Crossing Citrus Fruits.^. 64

Discussion on Citrus Fruits-. 65

Diseases and Insects of Citrus. 66

Sulphur Solution—Blight—Lemon Scab. 71

The “White Fly” and “Sooty Mould”. 74

Discussion on Citrus Insects and Insecticides.. 79

Truck Farming. 84

Discussion on Vegetables. 86

The Best Lawn Grass for Florida. 90

Injurious Insects. 94

Discussion on Injurious Insects. 99

Fertilizing Orange Groves. 103

Fertilizers and Fertilizing Materials. 104

Discussion on Fertilizers. 117

Irrigation in Florida. 130

Marketing Oranges. 140

Transportation. 143

Place of Next Meeting. 151

Resolutions of Thanks. 153


Contents.


g

XT.




















































VI


SEVENTH ANNUAL MEETING OF THE


Constitution.


Article 1 . This organization shall be known as the Flor¬
ida State Horticultural Society, and its object shall be the advancement of horticulture.

Art. 2. Any person may become a member of the society by signing the constitution and paying one dollar.

Art. 3. Its officers shall consist of a President, three Vice-
Presidents, Secretary, Corresponding Secretary, Treasurer,
and Executive Committee of three, who shall be elected by ballot at each annual meeting. After the first election their term of office shall begin on the 20th of May following their election.

Art. 4. The regular annual meeting of this society shall be held on the second Tuesday in April, except when otherwise ordered by the Executive Committee.

Art. 5. The duties of the President, Vice President, Secre¬
tary and Treasurer shall be such as usually devolve on those officers. The President and Secretary shall be, ex-officio,
advisory members of the Executive Committee.

Art. 6. The Executive Committee shall have authority to act for the society between annual meetings.

Art. 1. The Constitution may be amended by a vote of two thirds of the members present.


First Amendment. —Section 2, Article 2. Anyone may become a life member of this organization by the payment of the sum of ten dollars to the society.


“The annual dues of members shall be one dollar.”





FLORIDA STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY.


vil


OFFICERS


OF THE



1894-95.


PRESIDENT.

Dudley W. Adams, Tangerine.


VICE-PRESIDENTS.

G. L. Taber, Glen St. Mary. G. W. Mellish, DeFuniak Springs.

O. P. Rooks, Fruitland Park.


SECRETARY.

A. H. Manville, Glen St. Mary.


CORRESPONDING SECRETARY.

E. O. Painter, DeLand.


TREASURER.

J. B. Anderson, San Mateo.


EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE.

Lyman Phelps, Sanford, Chairman;

Ch F. As Bielby, DeLand; E. S. Hubbard, Federal Point.

President and Secretary, ex-officio.































SEVENTH ANNUAL MEETING OP THE


VIII


Standing Committees.


Committee on Cataloguing the Fruits of Florida: A. H. Man-
ville, Glen St. Mary; L. W. Plank, DeFuniak Springs; O. L.
Taber, Glen St. Mary; Jas. H. White, Georgiana; R. D.
Hoyt, Seven Oaks.

Committee on the Introduction of New Fruits and Plants : S.
S. Harvey, Molino; W. T. Swingle, Eustis; H. S. Williams,
Rock Ledge; G. L. Taber, Glen St. Mary; G. P. Healy,
Jaffery.

Committee on Citrus Fruits: H. S. Wiiliams, Rock Ledge; A.
L. Duncan, Dunedin; W. A. Cooper, Orlando.

Committee on Grapes: Emile Dubois, Tallahassee; Frank E.
Boncher, Orlando; H. P. Walker, Auburndale.

Committee on Peaches and Plums: L. W. Plank, DeFuniak
Springs; Edward Winter, Zellwood; Irving Keck, Bowling
Green.

Committee on Pears and Apples: S. S. Harvey, Molino; S. H.
Gaitskill, McIntosh; J. D. Andrews, Glen St. Mary.

Committee on Figs: W. D. Griffing, Macclenny; L. H. Arm¬
strong, St. Nicholas; J. A. Moore. Pensacola.

Committee on Tropical Fruits : Thomas E. Richards, Eden;
O. R. Thatcher, Avon Park; O. K. Wood, Cocoa.

Committee on Kaki: F. E. Fuller, Okahumpka; H. F. Stewart,
Daytona; A. S. J. McKinney, Stanton.

Committee on Strawberries and Miscellaneous Fruits: E. G.
Hill, Lawtey; James Mott, Orlando; C. II. Newell, DeFu¬
niak Springs.

Committee on Native Fruits: W. H. Mann, Mannville; Young
G. Lee, St. Petersburg; A. W. Stewart, Galt.

Committee on Ornamentals: Mrs. W. H. H. Holdridge, Grove
Park; A. V. Ciubbs, Pensacola; Mrs. S. A. Cunningham,
Altoona.

Committee on Nomenclature: John Fabyan, Conant; E. S.
Hubbard, Federal Point.



FLORIDA STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY.


IX


Committee on Vegetables: Geo. H. Wood, Tangerine; W. K.
Jackson, Inverness; Albert Fries, St. Nicholas.

Committee on Entomology: P. H. Rolfs, Lake City; W. T.
Swingle, Eustis; J. F. Stubbs, DeFuniak Springs.

Committee on Fertilizers: Stephen Powers, Lawtey; O. P.

Rooks, Fruitland Park; Lucius D. Stebbins, Orlando.

%

Committee on Irrigation : Geo. H. Wright, Orlando; Geo. W.
Adams, Thonotosassa; H. W. 0. Margary, Eustis.

Committee on Diseases and Insects of Citrus: H. J. Webber,
Eustis; F. G. Sampson, Boardman; C. A. Bacon, Ormond.

Committee on Marketing: Thos. Hind, Georgetown; W. S.
Hart, Hawks Park; M. W. Bennett, Okahumpka.

Commiitee on Transportation : G. P. Healy, Jaffery; T. A.
Darby, San Mateo; W. J. Borden, Oxford.


Special Committees.


Committee on Legislative Appropriation : S. S. Harvey, Mo-
lino; G. P. Healy, Jaffery; Emile Dubois, Tallahassee.

Committee on Joint Session , Texas and Florida State Horti¬
cultural Societies: G. L. Taber, Glen St. Mary; Geo. H.
Wright, Orlando; G. W. Mellish, DeFuniak Springs.

Committee on Investigation of Legislation Designed to Pre¬
vent the Introduction of Diseases and Insects: J. F. Stubbs,
DeFuniak Springs; P. H. Rolfs, Lake City; H. J. Webber,
Eustis.





X


SEVENTH ANNUAL MEETING OF THE


List of Members.


Honorary.


Berckmans, P. J., Augusta, Ga., | Redmond, D., St. Nicholas-


Life.


Healy, G. P., Jatfery,

Manville, A. H., Glen St. Mary,
Hart, W. S., Hawks Park,
Taber, G. L., Glen St. Mary,
Painter, E. O., DeLand,
Harvey, S. S., Molino,


Richards, Thos. E., Eden,..
Phelps, Lyman, Sanford,
Gaitskill, S. H., McIntosh,
Conner, W. E., 532 Madison ave^
New York City
Bielby, C. F. A., DeLand.


Annual.


Adams, Dudley W., Tangerine,
Anderson, J. B., San Mateo,
Armstrong, L. H., St. Nicholas,
Anderson, John, Ormond,

Adams, C. G., Sorrento,

Amsden, E. W , Ormond,

Allen, G. M., Oak Hill,

Bailey, Geo. M., Orlando,
Batterson, N. D., St. Augustine,
Bacon, C. A., Ormond,

Bean, E., Jacksonville,

Bradford, John, Bradfordville,
Brown, A. F., San Mateo,

Bradt, Benj. N., Huntington,


Andrews, J. D., Glen St.Mary,
Andrews, Mrs.K.A..Glen St.Mary
Adams, Geo. W., Thonotosassa,
Adams, S C., Ponce de Leon,
Avery, Dr. A. G., Orlando,
Allsop, W., Weirsdale.


Bradt, Mrs.Benj.N., Huntington,.
Brown, A. H., Belleview,

Brown, C. W., Huntington,
Burgess, J. E., Grove Park,
Boncher, Frank H., Orlando,
Bosanquet, Louis,Fruitland Park.
Burr, R. H., Winter Haven,










FLORIDA STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY


XI


Bostrom, J. A., Ormond,
Bostrom, Charles, Ormond,

Blood Edwin, Newburyport Mass
Bartlett, Geo. T., San Antonio,
Texas,

Brooker, Hy. Spencer, Ocoee,
Burns, Dennis, Pensacola,
Boring, J. W., Citra,

Blake, Ellis, Lake Helen,

Brady, A., Mims,

Burgwin, H. P., Zell wood,

Boone, C. A., Orlando,

Baker, Chas. Henry, Grasmere,
Bitting, A. W., Lake City,

Beers, Jno. J., Emporia,

Buffum, F. C., Stanton,

Ballard, James C., Lake City,


Crane, A. H., Nashua,

Chase, J. C., Sanford,

Crosby, O. M., Avon Park,
Corrigan, J. F., St. Leo,
Cunningham, S. A., Altoona,
Cunningham, Mrs. S. A.,Altoona,
Cooper, W. A., Orlando,

Carnell, James, Ormond.
Campbell, Geo. C., Merrimack,
Cronise, C. T., Pensacola,
Clubbs, A. V., Pensacola,

Culley, J. F., Chuluota,

Curtis, C. H., Astor,

Caldwell, C. E., Melrose,
Chapman, J. T., Plymouth,
Clark, E. L., Long wood,

Carey, A. H., Winter Park,


Duncan, A L., Dunedin,

Dupee, Henry H., Paola,

Dreka, G. A., DeLand,

DeLong, Dr. W. H., Emporia,
Dickson, Sam C., Longwood,

Elliott, D. H., Sanford.

Emmons, W.A , St.Andrews Bay


Foster, Dr. Henry, Oviedo,

Fries, Albert, St. Nicholas,

Flye, James, Haines City,
Fabyan, John, Conant,
Friedlander, H., Tnterlachen,
Forrest, W. H., Citadel Hill,
Quebec, Canada,

Faye, A., Faye,


Branham, A. G., Orlando,

Bernd, Peter, Bowling Green,
Buffum, E. H., Ocala,

Buffum, Mrs. E. H.,.Ocala,
Buffum, Miss F. C., Ocala,
Berry, Mrs. C. H., Glen St. Mary
Bennett, W. M., Okahumpka,
Bryant, J. M., White City,

Bell, J. D., Hawthorn,

Bailey, E. E., San Mateo,
Bradford, Wm. A., Jacksonville,
Borden, W. J., Oxford,
Barksdale, H. J., Jaffery,

Buell, C. M., Glenwood,

Bigelow, G. W-, Bushnell,
Butterweck, OttoC., Brooksville,
Bush, G. G., Belleview.


Clark, N. L., Bushnell,
Crawshaw, J., Jr., Lawtey,
Crews, D. D., Jr., Crewsville,
Craver, J. C., Sutherland,
Chilton, B. F., New Smyrna,
Clark, J. Y., Fruitland Park,
Carlton, S. J., Arcadia,

Carlton, E. B., Arcadia,

Cuzner, A. T., Gilmore,

Correll, Adam, DeLand,

Correll, Mrs. Adam, DeLand,
Cook, Benj., Highland,

Cogswell, John F., Clarcona,
Calvin, R. W., Daytona.

Cook, J. W., Okahumpka,
Charentenay,Chas. de,St.Thomas


Dought, H. F., Daytona,
Darby, T. A., San Mateo,
Douglas, R. C., Citra,
Daigre, Roman, Boardman,
Dubois, Emile, Tallahassee.


Edgarton, 1). M., Coquina,
Earle, Wm. H., Tangerine.


Frankland, A., Glen St. Mary,
Fuller, F. E., Okahumpka,
Fairbanks, Geo. R., Fernandina,
Felt, J. P., Emporia,

Froscher, Andrew, Titusville,
Foster, E. K., Sanford,
Felderhof,E.,South Dennis. Mass







SEVENTH ANNUAL MEETING OF THE


• •

XII

Gillen, Dr. H. H., DeLand,
Gaines, J. B., Leesburg,

Godbey, T. K., Waldo,

Gould, P. L., Eustis,

Griggs, Chas. D., Plymouth,
Grus, Wm., 113 Dearborn Street
Chicago, Ill.

Green, S. L., Federal Point,
Gusney, L. H., Merritt,

Hand, H. P., Daytona,

Hill, W. J., Sanford,

Hamlin, Arthur G., DeLand,
Hoyt, R. D., Seven Oaks,
Hastings, H. G., Interlachen,
Hastings, G. W., Interlachen,
Hopkins, C. L,, Umatilla,
Haden, A., Orlando,

Haynes, L. E , Orlando,

Hart, E. H., Federal Point,

Hill, E. G, Lawtey,

Hatch, F. W., Oak Hill,

Hawks, Dr. J. M., Hawks Park,
Hubbard, E. S , Federal Point,
Hewett, W. C., Stanton,
Holdridge, W. H H., Grove Park
Hoi 1 ridge, Mrs. W. H II , “

Hammond, E C., Jaffery,
Hastings, Tlios. H., Hastings,

Ingall, Chas., Federal Point,


Johnson, Tom, La Grange,
Johnson, J. H., Ormond,
Jackson, Arthur C . Palm Beach,
Jackson, Mrs. Arthur (J., “

Jones, Cyrus, Bowling Green,


King, J. B., Sanford,
Kleinascheg, A., Sara Sota,
Keck, Irving, Bowling Green,
Kilkoff, Miss Eva, DeLand,
Kingsbury, A. G , Winter Park.
Kimball, R. J., Melrose,


Lund, C. P , Daytona,
Leedy, J. M . Keuka,
Lipsey, L. W., Citra,
Lutticliau, H. von, Earlton,
Love, J. C., Leesburg,
Lytle, Frank H., Stanton,
Lord, H. P., Tampa,


Greenleaf, D., Jacksonville,
Griffing, C. M., Waycross, Ga.,
Gore, Mahlon, Orlando,

Given, R. W., Winter Park,
George, E. B., Oak Villa,
Grosswendt, Mrs. M., Inverness,
Grosswendt, Th.., Inverness,
Griffing, W. D., Macclenny,
Gillett, M. E., Weirsdale.


Ilasenyager, Chas. A., Interlachen
Hatch, A. L , City Point,

Herff, B. von, Washington, D. C,
Harvey, H. H., Seffner,

Hawkins, J. K., Brunswick, Ga.,
Harding, J. W., Ormond,

Hind, Thomas, Georgetown,
Hampton, Henry ,T., Lane Park,
Hall, P. A., Glenwood,

Hawkins, Chas. W., Georgetow n
Harrison, T. F., Citra,

Hall, F. E , Glenwood,

Hill, S. B., Lake Maitland,
Hillyer, Chas. V., Fernandina,
Hall, S. B., San Mateo,

Hardee, G. S , Rock Ledge,
Hawkins, W. W., Georgetown,
Hyden, V. P., Jaffery,

Higgins, C. W., Daytona.

| Ingraham, J. E , St. Augustine.


Johnson, W.H., Bartow,

Jones, Mrs M C., Bowling Green
Jackson, W. K , Inverness,
Jenkins, P. L., Seville,

Jones, C. J. K., DeLand.


Key, A. D ., Eustis,

Kirkpatrick, J. A., Pensacola,
Kessler, Thos. V., Pensacola,
Keown, W. J., Pom >na,

Keck, Mrs. A. W., Bowling Green


Lee, G. M. Montclair,

Lcw ; s, W. J, Man jo,

Lewis, W F., Pensacola,

Leslie, James H., Panasoffkee.

Lee, Young G., St. Petersburg,
Lancaster, G. W , DeLand,










FLORIDA STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY.


Xlll


Lutghe, Henry, New Smyrna,

La Montague, I. B., Winter Park,

Mead, T. L., Oviedo,

Manville, Mrs. A. H., Glen St.
Mary,

Mo t, James, Orlando,

Marsh, W. A., Orlando,

Mann, W. H., Mannville,
McKibbin, J. C., Ocala,

Mace, J, P., Lake Helen,
Moremen, M. S., Switzerland,
Mahan, S. H., Island Lake,
Munson, F. W., Georgiana,
McNary, Chas., Ormond,
Markley, H. C., Greenville, S. C.,
Munson, C. D., Eustis,

Moore, J. A., Pensacola,

Mellish, G. W., DeFuniak Spgs.

Newell, C. H., DeFuniak Spgs.,
Noble, Adam, Leesburg,

Nevins, P. J., Merritt,

Newcomb, Irving, Huntington,

Oren, Wm McF., Bartow,

Pierce, R. W., Sunset Hill,

Pratt, Dr. E. E., Limona,

Powers, Stephen, Lawtey,
Pugsley, Chas., Mannville,

Peck, W. G , Winter Park,

Plank, Levi W., DeFuniak Spgs.
Porter, Miss Irma H., Citra.
Pugsley, M., Woodbine,

Perry, D. W., Pomona,

Regan, J E., Pensacola,

Rogers, J. Thos., Drayton Island
Richmond, J. F., Okahumpka,
Reed, W. F.. Drayton Island,
Rooks, O. P., Fruitland Park,
Rooks, W. W-, Fruitland Park,
Reasoner, E N., Oneco,

Rand, F. H , Sanford,

Richards, A. C.,Washington,D.C.
Robey, Geo. W., Tampa,

Rolfs, P. H , Lake City,

gpencer, J. W., Pensacola,
gtoddard, Henry E., Nashua,
gnow, Geo. E., Eastlake,
gtyles, A. F., Jacksonville,
gampson, F. G , Boardman,


Leri, Mrs., DeLand.


Morrison, D. A., DeLand,
Magruder, G. M., Oak Hill,
Moore, A. D., Candler,

Margary, H. W. O., Eustis,
Montgomery, L., Micanopy,
Marsh, Harmon W., Okahumpka
McCollum, J. T., Bushnell,
McGraw, B. F., Buffalo Bluff,
McKinney, A. S. J., Stanton,
McKinney, Mrs. A. S. J., Stanton,
Miuter, Miss L. S.,San Mateo,
Montgomery, Mrs. L., Micanopy,
Milton, T. N., Olustee,

Miner, M. M., Emporia,

Mims, R. E., Bonaventure.


Nairn, James, Panasoffkee,
Nye, F. M., Waldo,

Neher, E. J., Keuka.


| Oren, Mrs. Wm. McF.. Barlow.

Paine, E. T., Jacksonville,
Penley, H E., Tampa.

Price, Frank N.. Orlando,
Prevatt, F. B , Seville,

Porcher, E. P , Cocoa,

Post, C. C., Halifax,

Pheil, A. 0., Inverness,

Patilla, J. A., Osteen.


Rolfs, Mrs. P. H., Lake City,
Rand, Geo. D., Winter Park,
Robinson, Norman, Orlando,
Russell, J. W., Daytona,

Rogers, T. L., Daytona,

Ross, W. M. P., Holly Hill,
Robertson, W. A. R., Inverness,.
Rush, Jno. L., New Smyrna,
Rogero, F. E., Armstrong,
Richardson, Otis, Bronson.


Sampson, Miss O. H., Boardman,
Stewart, A. W. Galt,

Soria, H. N., Caryville,

Stubbs, J. T., DeFuniak Springs,
Stanley. Miss Mary F.,. Daytona,.








XIV


SEVENTH ANNUAL MEETING OF THE


Swingle, W. T., Eustis,

Stillman, Joliu E., Jacksonville,
Street, A. W., Ormond,

Stevens, H. B., Citra,

Sellner, Capt. Chas., Zell wood,
Seaton, Wm., St. Thomas,
Stebbins, Lucius D., Orlando,
Slieimer, Mrs. F. A. W., DeLand
Slayton, H. H., Glen S'. Mary,
Stephenson, Henry, DeLand,
Scotton, J. M., Archer.

Thomasson, John, Gotha,

Taber, Mrs. G. L., Glen St. Mary,
Thatcher, O. It., Avon Park,
Taber, J. O., Sanford,

Taylor, Wm. A. Washington,D. C,
Tiscliler, P., Jacksonville,

Upham, E. S., Saugus, Mass.

Van Ness,Eugene, Baltimore,Md,
Varnum, Miss E. W., Fort Gate^

Wade, J. S., Homeland, (/
Wilson, Lorenzo A., Jacksonville
Winter, Edward, Zell wood,
Woodworth, N., Welaki,
Wightman, L., Orange Park,
Williams, H. S.. Ro k Ledge,
Wright, Geo. H., Orlando,

Weld, Jno. C., Port Orange,
White, Chas. W.. Citra,

Whitner, J. N., Lake City,

Warr, Aaron, Georgetown,
Wright, R. J., Tangerine,
Wyman, A. F., Archer,

Wilson, Geo. W., Ocala,

White, Jas . H., Georgiana,
Warner, S. C., Palatka,

Westlake, J. Willis, Lake Helen,
Ward (veil, W.H., Brookline,Mass


Shapley, Geo., Oak Villa,
Stewart, H. F., Daytoi a,
Stewart, G. G., Daytona,
Stewart, W. F., Daytona,
Stewart, Jno. W., Daytona,
Stanton, Miss L. A., San Mateo,
Suydam, G. L., St. Nicholas,
Smythe, A. W. C., Orlando,
Stone, B. W., Thomasville, Ga.,
Sampson, Mrs. M. J., Boardman,


Trowbridge, J. O., Waldo,
Turner, E., Lake Maitland,
Tiffin, H.J., Courtenay,
Thomas, Charles, Citra,
Thorp, H. H., Daytona,
Tillson, Davis, Leesburg.


Van Roe, J., Tampa,

Varn, W. B., Bartow.

Wakelin, Amos, Philadelphia,Pa.
Webber, H. J., Eustis
Woodbury, E. D., Da-ke,

Wright, H. A., Glenw^od,
Watson, Thomas C., Pensacola,
Wright, H. C,, 106 E. Pratt St.,
Baltimore, Md.,

Walker, H. P., Auburndale,
Whitner, Mrs. J. N., Lake City,
Ware, William, Glenwood,

Waite, F. D., Belleview,

Wood, Geo. H., Tangerine,
Wyckoff, John S., Citra,

Wood, O. K., Cocoa,

Watson, Wilbur, Stanton,

Watts, S. W., DeLand,

Waugh, Thos. C., St. Thomas
Wilson, L. E., New Smyrna.


Young, Chas. F., Orlando.







FLORIDA STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY.


XV


Prefatory Note.


In compiling this report, the matter of general interest has been gathered under topical heads, preceded by a synopsis outlining the transactions of the session in proper sequence.
The pith and point of lengthy discussions have been given with as little tedious detail as possible, and repetitions and irrelevant matter has been excluded, so far as this could be done without impairing the unity of the whole ; the object being, without sacrificing any essenlial feature, to make the report more convenient for reference than a simple transcript of minutes.

As noted in the preface to the report for 1893, the last ses¬
sion of the legislature failed to make provision for the publi¬
cation of the annual reports of the Society. For theis suance of this report, as well as the report for last year, the Society and the public are indebted to the public spirit of Hon. L. B.
Womb well, state commissioner of agriculture. Recognizing the importance of the work to the state, he has issued the re¬
ports for 1893 and 1894 as publications of his office, devolving the cost upon the revenues of the department of agriculture.

This temporary arrangement, by which the state has so greatly profited through the breadth of view and insight of our present commissioner, cannot, in the nature of things,
continue. The legislature should make adequate provision for the purpose. The Society’s special committee will lay this matter before the next session of that body. From this com¬
mittee’s forceful statement of the urgency and appropriate¬
ness of the legislation asked, we make the following extract :

The proceedings of the annual meetings of the Florida State
Horticultural Society should be issued promptly, in a style that will not suffer by comparison with the published reports of similar societies in other states, and in sufficient numbers



XVI


to supply members, and others interested in the vast fund of information each copy would contain.

This is not a matter of interest to our membership merely,,
but its importance to the state at large will be appreciated by every public spirited citizen. Such a publication would be eagerly sought, and everywhere accepted as a disinterested account of our resources and advantages, and an authentic record of the methods and progress of our horticultural in¬
dustry. In no other way could such information be so ac¬
ceptable and effectively put forth. It is important to the growth and prosperity of our state, that this work be distrib¬
uted throughout the states, and in foreign countries, and it should be issued in a form to command respect.

Nearly all the states have made provision for the publica¬
tion of the proceedings of their horticultural societies; in some, all the expenses of these organizations are defrayed from the public funds; in one state no less than $30,000 is annually appropriated for these purposes, and several have erected substantial buildings as permanent homes for their societies. In contributing of their time, means and ability to accumulate and bring together this valuable knowledge, the members do their part. Publication and distribution should devolve upon the state.




SEVENTH ANNUAL MEETING


OF THE



iORTICUIMAL SOCIETY.


The seventh annual meeting of the Florida State Horti¬
cultural Society was held at Jacksonville upon the invitation of the Board of Trade of that city. The society convened in the rooms of the Board of Trade on Wednesday, April
10th, at 3 o’clock P. M., in accordance with the programme as published, and adjourned sine die on Friday, April 13th,
at 12 o’clock noon.

The attendance was large, the strong interest manifested was sustained throughout, and the work accomplished was satisfactory. Altogether it was one of the most successful meetings in the history of the society. Over 200 members were present, and there was a large outside attendance, the spacious hall being filled to overflowing at most of the sessions.

The convenience of the societv and the comfort of its members were exceptionally well provided for. Mr. E.
Bean, chairman of the society’s committee on local ar¬
rangements, as well as of the Board of Trade’s committee of entertainment, and his coadjutors, were congratulated on all sides upon moving everything smoothly and well, and making everybody happy.

Eight sessions were held as follows: Tuesday, afternoon and evening; Wednesday, morning, afternoon, and evening;
Thursday, morning and evening; Friday, morning. As usual a session was omitted, and the time devoted to social functions. Opportunity for this was given on Thursday af¬
ternoon by a steamboat excursion to the jetties at the mouth of the St. Johns river, tendered by the Board of Trade.

1


















*










FLORIDA STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY.


1


SYNOPSIS OF PROCEEDINGS.


(While the proceedings are not given in full detail below,
this abstract is a complete epitome of the meeting, all its actions and events being arranged in order as they occurred.
The addresses, papers, discussions, resolutions and other matters of general interest or speeial importance, are given in full under appropriate topical heads in the body of the re¬
port, and are simply noted here. Minor action and events and matters pertaining to routine business, are given in a more or less condensed form in this outline. Discussions on other subjects than horticulture, not resulting in action,
and motions which failed, have been omitted, with or without mention, as their importance seemed to justify.)


FIRST RAY—Afternoon—Opening- Session.

1. Call to order by President Adams.

2. Prayer, Rev. Dr. E. B. Snyder, Jacksonville.

3. Address of welcome, Hon. D. U. Fletcher, mayor.

4. Response on behalf of the society, C. F. A. Bielby.

5. President’s annual address.

6. Secretary’s report.

T. Treasurer’s report.

8. Motion that all member’s tickets be countersigned by the secretary as requested by transportation lines, carried unanimously.

Evening Session.

9. Call to order by the president.

10. Report of the Executive Committee. Several by-laws and an amendment to the constitution submitted and recom¬
mended by way of report. Discussed and laid upon the table.

11. Committee on Grapes called. Paper by A. W. Stew¬
art, and paper by himself read by Chairman Geo. H. Wright.
Discussion on grapes.

12. Committee'on Figs called. No report.

13. Committee on Tropical Fruits called. No report.
By request of the president, Thomas E. Richards addressed the society on the subject of pineapples. Discussion on pine¬
apples.




2


SEVENTH ANNUAL MEETING OF THE


SECOND DAY—Morning Session.

14. Call to order by the president.

15. “Diseases and insects of citrus” substituted for “apples and pears,” and vice versa in the programme, by unanimous vote.

16. Committee on Catalogue called. Report by A. H.
Manville, chairman. Catalogue committee given until next meeting to complete its report, and constituted a regular standing committee ot the society by unanimous resolution.

17. In connection with report on catalogue, address by A.
H. Manville on “Horticulture in the Gulf Region,” suggest¬
ing joint meeting of the Florida and Texas Horticultural So¬
cieties. Texas State Horticultural Society invited to joint session by unanimous resolution.

18. Committee on Vegetables called. Paper read from
J. A. Moore, chairman, (not present). Discussion on veg¬
etables.

19. Committee on Diseases and Insects of Citrus called.
Paper submitted from W. A. Marsh, member of the com¬
mittee, who was not present. (In order to give place for the lectures of Professors Swingle and Webber, this paper was not read, but was filed for publication). Verbal report by
Prof. W. T. Swingle, chairman, on “sulphur solutions*,
blight* foot-rot, and lemon scab ”

20. “The White Fly or Black Smut.” Verbal presentation of the subject by Prof. H. J. Webber, in accordance with special request of the society at last meeting. Discussions on diseases and insects of citrus.

21. Excursion tendered by the Board of Trade announced*
for Thursday afternoon.

, Afternoon Session.

22. Call to order by the president.

23. Special Committee on Introduction of New Fruits-
called. Verbal report by S. S. Harvey, chairman. Con¬
stituted a regu’ar standing committee, and members con¬
tinued for another year by unanimous vote.

24. Committee on Kaki called. No report. Discussion on kaki.

25. Committee on Fertilizers called. Paper read by B. N.
Bradt, chairman. Paper (prepared at the request of the society) read by E. O. Painter. Discussion on fertilizers.

Evening Session.

26. Call to order by the president.

27. Election of officers. Result as follows: President,
Dudley W. Adams; First Vice-President, George L. Taber;,




FLORIDA STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY.


3


Second Vice-President, J. W. Mellish; Third Vice-President,
O. P. Rooks; Secretary, A. H. Manville; Corresponding
Secretary, E. O. Painter; Treasurer, J. B. Anderson; Ex¬
ecutive Committee, Lyman Phelps, C. F. A. Bielby, E. S.
Hubbard.

28. Committee on Transportation called. Verbal report by G. P. Healy, chairman. Discussion on transportation.


THIRD DAY—Morning Session.

29. Call to order by the president.

30. Report of the Executive Committee on Constitution and By-Laws taken from the table. Amendment to the constitution passed unanimously. (See constitution). By¬
laws referred back to the committee.

31. Place of next meeting taken up. Invitation from
Board of Trade to hold next meeting in Jacksonville read.
A. G. Avery and W. A. Cooper of Orlando, placed the latter place also in the field. Discussion. Jacksonville selected by vote.

32. Committee on Peaches and Plums called. Paper read by S. S. Harvey, chairman. Discussion on peaches and plums.

33. Communication read from Stephen Powers and C. W.
DaCosta, inviting members while in the city to drop in upon the Farmer and Fruit Grower at home.

34. Committee on Strawberries called. Paper by H. E.
Stoddard, chairman. (This paper which is published upon another page, was not read, Mr. Stoddard giving way to the
Chairman of the Committee on Nomenclature who was obliged to leave by the next train.)

35. Committee on Nomenclature called. Paper read by E.
,-S. Hubbard, chairman. Discussion.

36. Committee on Citrus Fruits called. No report. Re¬
marks by Professors W. T. Swingle and H. J. Webber.
Discussion on citrus fruits.

Afternoon.

The excursion was one of the most enjoyable features of the meeting. All the members went with their wives and daughters, and a goodly delegation from the Board of Trade,
and their wives and daughters. From start to finish the hum of animated conversation from the groups about the decks and cabins was uninterrupted, save to catch some new point of interest pointed out by the River Improvement Trustees,
or to partake of the liberal collations provided. At least no interruption worth mentioning, for the steamer was turned




4


SEVENTH ANNUAL MEETING OF THE


speedily about after passing the jetties, before the heavings of the mighty deep had any very perceptible effect.

Probably never before in the state did so many prominent horticulturists from so many different sections meet so many other prominent horticulturists from so many other sections.
Old friendships were renewed, and new acquaintances formed. Everybody seemed to have been waiting this op¬
portunity to ask somebody else something. More than in the formal sessions the real gist of things is brought out in these familiar talks between the acts, when everybody speaks and speaks his mind. When the steamer touched her dock again, the faces plainly said they were not half through.
The way the choruses of the folk-lore songs and ballads rang out in the gloaming, and the heartiness of the vote of thanks to Secretary Smith and the Board of Trade, certainly betokened that everybody had had the very best possible time.

Evening Session.

37. Call to order by the president.

38. Unanimous resolutions of thanks to the State Com¬
missioner of Agriculture, Jacksonville Board of Trade, and general passenger agents of the state.

39. Committee on Marketing called. Verbal report by
Thos. Hind, chairman. Discussion on marketing.


FOURTH DAY—Morning Session.

40. Call to order by the president.

41. Committee on Irrigation called: Paper read by A. G.
Kingsbury, chairman.

42. Vice-President Meilish called to the chair.

43. - Committee on Entomology called. Paper read by
Prof. P. H. Rolfs, chairman. Discussion on entomology.

44. Committee on Ornamentals called. No report. Dis¬
cussion on the best lawn grass for Florida.

45. Committee on Apples and Pears called. No report.
Discussion on pears.

46. President resumes the chair.

47. Motion by J. T. Stubbs that a committee of three be appointed to investigate and report upon legislation for the purpose of preventing the introduction of diseases and in¬
sects, as suggested by Prof. Rolf in his paper on entomology.
Carried. President announced the following committee :
J. T. Stubbs, P. H. Rolfs, H. J. Webber.

Adjourned sine die.






FLORIDA STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY.


5


Address of Welcome.


BY HON. D. U. FLETCHER, MAYOR OF JACKSONVILLE.


“Mr. President, Ladies and Gentlemen—It is a pleas-
ure to extend to the State Horticultural Society the cor¬
dial greeting and hospitality of the city of Jacksonville,
Speaking for the government and speaking for the people, I
wish it understood that there is not a city, a town, a hamlet or community in Florida which has less than our kindest feelings and best wishes; there is not an enterprise or an un¬
dertaking in the state, no matter where located, for which we do not desire every possible success and prosperity.
Whether it brings grist to our mill or not, directly we re¬
alize that as Florida prospers, so must we; as developments go on in the state, the better for us; no section or community can build up to our disadvantage; no advancement can be made at our expense. This is our view. This is the view which we cultivate, and we are always glad to have with us our neighbors and friends.

“At all times our gates are open wide to the citizens and well wishers of Florida. Especially is it agreeable and pleasant to have with us this society which is bent upon promoting the development of the material interests of the*
state. I understand that you are very close to, indeed that you represent the most important industry in the state to¬
day, and you are here for the purpose of considering means,
and methods which will advance that industry and render it more profitable.

“Any association or individual who is engaged in an effort to make easier and more profitable the cultivation of the soil, deserves the encouragement and gratitude of mankind..
It is a singular thing that while more people are engaged in agriculture than in any other pursuit, doing the hardest work,
they receive the least remuneration, although agriculture and horticulture are the foundation of all prosperity, and the*
source of all wealth. It was wise philosophy which was ut¬
tered by the Persian king when he said that ‘the authority of the prince can only be maintained by military force, mil¬
itary force can only be maintained by taxes, all taxes must rest on agriculture, and agriculture can only flourish by the protection of justice and moderation.’ The most cruel war measure and that which accomplished the most destruction and ruin to the people, was that adopted by the Goths when




6


SEVENTH ANNUAL MEETING OF THE


they deprived their captives of the right hand—the hand that guides the plow. We may bond our cities and dig out our rivers; we may pave our streets, beautify and adorn; we may erect immense buildings, and go on with great improvements;
we may borrow and spend, boast and display, but no com¬
merce will float on our rivers, the owls and bats will inhabit our buildings, and serpents and toads will dwell in our streets,
unless the soil is made to bring forth fruit. So I say this work needs to be made attractive, and needs to be made prof¬
itable. In Florida we have an unsurpassed climate, we have splendid natural advantages; nature has dealt bountifully with us; to render our harvests abundant and our products prof¬
itable, obstacles must be met, and difficulties overcome. It is for you to solve these problems.”

Continuing, the speaker touched upon some of the more serious questions which confront the producers of this state,
notably, transportation and marketing. In his opinion the legislature had made a great mistake in allowing the small appropriation asked for the Horticultural Society to fail.
He believed, poor as the state was, it could afford “a few thousand dollars to assist in destroying the insects which kill the trees; in proving that new plants may be cultivated, new fruits grown; in demonstrating the value of new materials,
new methods and the like.” Concluding as follows: “Now,
gentlemen, wishing this society abundant success, and hoping that you will be able to accomplish much benefit to the people by your efforts and deliberations, I again extend to you a hearty and cordial welcome.”


Response to the Address of Welcome,


BY C. F. A. BIELBY.


“Mr. President—As you have asked me in behalf of your¬
self and the society, to reply to the address of welcome which the mayor of the city has so cordially extended, I
beg to say that I am more than willing to comply, because I
feel a personal as well as a society pride in our being here to-day; for it is a fact, as you will perhaps remember, Mr.
President, that I have always advocated that the State
Horticultural Society should hold its meetings not simply to-day, but always, in this metropolitan city of the state.









FLORIDA STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY.


7


I have always held this because I believe it is a good thing for us to meet yearly in this city which is the gateway of entrance and exit. This is the proper place to hold our ses¬
sions, for the great trial of country life is its solitude and loneliness. One reason, if not the principal reason why our young men leave the country and go into the cities to live,
is because of this loneliness; and we know that there are many who, year after year, never go outside of their county,
and for them how wearisome the life of the farmer must be¬
come. Now, I maintain, that we should have an oppor¬
tunity once a year, at least, to meet in the city through whose gates the wonderful products of our farms and orchards have passed, freighted with the hopes and wishes of hearts anxious for the outcome. It has been said sometimes that Jackson¬
ville does not care for meetings of this sort; that it does not rcare to have within its borders assemblies of the nature of this society, but it has never occurred to me that we would lack a welcome, and the kind and eloquent words of the mayor show that Jacksonville is not insensible of her in¬
debtedness to those whom we represent for their part in the splendid progress which she is making. Indeed, we may judge of our success by hers, and when we look upon her new and handsome buildings, her paved streets, her deep water to the sea, her promise of improved water front, and see every¬
where the air of business activity and prosperity, we may
■properly feel that a portion of this prosperity is due to us
*nd our efforts. And, this being true, it would seem that we

are not so poor and so unsuccessful as some would make us appear.

“I believe that one of the things we ought to do while here is to enter our protest against the idea which is so vigorously pushed that we are on the verge of disruption, so to speak,
as a band of men engaged in the particular industry of fruit growing; that it is so unpromising and so fruitless that we may as well desert it at once and altogether. We believe, as
I have said, that it is due in part to our efforts—and the mayor very properly admits this fact—that Jacksonville is making such rapid and marvelous improvements. If the old adage be true that when the tiller of the soil is impoverished,
the marts of commerce suffer; we have here the proof that we are not in such bad shape as we are shown by some to be.
We do not see any evidence of suffering in Jacksonville. On the contrary, every sign of vigorous, healthfui, prosperous and substantial growth, and from this we may take heart and go home encouraged to our work. It is an object lesson,
Mr. President, for everyone, and I am sqre it will inspire us all to renewed industry.


8


SEVENTH ANNUAL MEETING OF THE


“We may possibly be able to shake off the idea that the or¬
ange grower has no future in sight. I have to admit that the view at present is not so rosy as it was ten years ago, but I
have to inquire also, did we not expect too much ten years ago, just as some of us to-day are prone to expect too little and to become disheartened? Was it reasonable to expect that the owner of a five acre grove ten years of age would be in affluence? Perhaps it was not unreasonable, I confess that I believed it, but if we have come out of this dream, out oi this paradise, let us not fall into the other extreme and despair of our industry. This one thing we must learn, that the men that can raise the best fruit for the least money, are the ones destined to be successful, and that it is the special,
I might say the only province of this Horticultural Society,
to teach men how to grow the best fruit for the least money-
The orange of Florida is peerless, it stands without a rival or a second, and when I speak of the orange of Florida, I do not mean the thousands of boxes sent out annually which should go to the refuse pile, but the orange that has no ri¬
val on the face of the earth, the orange which the State
Horticultural Society has been largely instrumental in mak¬
ing what it is. We talk of the climate, soil, fertilizer and all the circumstances which fit together to make orange grow¬
ing in Florida, so far as the bulk of the fruit is concerned, as successful as it is, but I have no hesitaiion in saying for our society that in the last seven years we have improved the quality, appearance and texture, and thereby raised the stan¬
dard of the Florida orange more than 25 per cent. And the men who never attend our meetings, who scarcely ever hear of u-, you meet them everywhere, and if you ask them about fertilization and orange and fruit culture, you will find that almost every one of them has picked up some portion of the methods which we have shown to be best adapted to the raising of first class fruit on all kinds of Florida soils; and now, Mr. President, when the standard of every man who raises fruit in the state of Florida shall be the ideal which this society has created, then w T e shall have gone a long way towards solving the difficult problems before us.

“To j^ou, Mr. Mayor, and to those whom you represent, I
beg to convey the thanks of our president and the thanks of this society for your kindly welcome, and to assure you that we appreciate the welcome and the cordiality with which your city has thrown open her gates to us.”



FLORIDA STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY.


9


President’s Annual Address.


BY DUDLEY W. ADAMS.


Ladies and Gentlemen of the Florida State Horticultural Society :

For the seventh time the Florida State Horticultural So¬
ciety meets in annual convention. The augmented numbers who meet here to-day give us cheer, for they tell louder than words of the growth and extending influences of our society.
We warmly greet the veterans who have been long with us in the field, and heartily welcome the recruits who swell and strengthen our hosts. It is a source of great pride to be able to say that our growth has been steady and rapid from the very first until to-day. Though one of the youngest, the
Florida State Horticultural Society is one of the largest,
most useful, intelligent and active societies of the kind in the
United States. The work we have done we look back to with satisfaction, and the work before us we look forward to with hope, determination and confidence. When the so¬
ciety was organized, the horticulture of the state was compar¬
atively in its infancy; the orange and lemon business was just beginning to be of consequence. Florida’s peaches, pears and pomelos were practically unknown. The pineapple, straw¬
berry and grape were scarcely thought of as Florida prob¬
abilities of importance. The horticulturists of the state were mostly at work in the dark as to the best varieties,
modes of planting, cultivation and fertilizing.

A STRANGE SOIL AND CLIME.

Of those who were engaged in horticulture in Florida at that time, some were at a strange business in a familiar soil and climate; a few more were in a familiar business in a strange soli and a strange climate; but the great majority were engaging in a strange business in a strange soil and strange climate. Of all of these was the Florida State Hor¬
ticultural Society composed at its organization. All were anxious scholars, not one was a competent teacher. We knew that the people of the United States wanted and would use fine Florida fruit, and we determined to find out how to grow it for them. To that end almost exclusively have been devoted the efforts of our society. We have counseled to¬
gether as to the soil, planting, varieties, fertilization, cultiva¬
tion, budding, pruning, etc. The progress we have made, and the success we have achieved, is evidenced by a crop this




10


SEVENTH ANNUAL MEETING OF THE


year of nearly 5,000,000 boxes of oranges; pears, grapes,
peaches and strawberries by the car load, and young plan¬
tations of each that in the near future will furnish train loads.

That we have reached perfection in varieties and modes of
•cultivation of these fruits, no one will claim. On the con¬
trary, it is plain that we are only on the threshold of eco¬
nomical, scientific, successful and practical production of fruit. But we have now reached a point where we can look ahead and with certainty see what the possibilities and prob¬
abilities of production are. We see now five million boxes of oranges, and trees enough planted that with our present knowledge will in a few years bear ten million, fifteen million,
or twenty million boxes; and pears, peaches, pineapples and strawberries are coming in uncounted carloads.

IS THERE OVER-PRODUCTION?

This fact brings us face to face with the great problem of to-day. Our efforts at production have been so successful that we look with pride upon our magnificent crops of fruit and vegetables, and can confidently rely on rapidly increas¬
ing quantity and improved quality. Here then is the prob¬
lem. What shall we do with it. Is there an over-produc¬
tion?

The five million boxes we have grown this year would only give each inhabitant of the TJniled States one orange a month. Is that too many? And yet the growers have not received from the sale of this crop the cost of its production.
Acres of cabbage are rotting in our fields to-day, and millions of people are hungry for cabbage. In view of these facts, is it wise to continue to devote undivided attention to the growing of fruits and vegetables, for which we receive no fair compensation?

Though I do not believe we are growiag more fruit than ought to be used under proper conditions, yet it does occur to me that we have now reached a point where we must grap¬
ple with the stubborn facts that our present production has outgrown our present means and methods of transporting,
distributing and selling. It is the height of folly to go on increasing our output without at the same time providing some way to dispose of it at a profft. That thing must be done, and it will be well for this convention to give its best thoughts to a discussion of the paramount question. With this in mind, it may not be out of the way to call your atten¬
tion to some of the prominent features of the situation.

As stated before, five million boxes of oranges will just about give each inhabitant of the United States one orange a month. It would seem possible that, under favorable condi-


FLORIDA STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. If

tions, each person could be induced to eat one orange a week and not become surfeited, and that would take twenty million boxes. Can we bring about those conditions?

MUST BE SOLD CHEAP.

To popularize oranges and have every one eat them freely,
they must be sold to the consumer at popular prices. At fancy prices like 40 cents, 60 cents, or $1.00 per dozen, only the few can use them freely, a good many moderately, but a great many more sparingly or not at all. If the money the consumer pays for iruit could be divided among the grower,
carrier and seller in fair proportion to the service rendered,
this could be done. The grower has spent money, time and care, and has originated the product, yet under the present system he is the last one paid. He sends out a lot of or¬
anges; the transportation compauy takes charge of them, and when they reach their destination, the freight must be paid in full, and the drayage must be paid in lull, and then the commission for selling must paid in full. If the fruit brings too little to meet these charges, the grower is called upon to make up the deficiences, and in any event he gets only the surplus after all other charges are paid. Whether the price of fruit is high or low, win ther die grower gets anything or not, the transportation is always high, and is al¬
ways the first bill to be paid.

HIGH FREIGHT RATES.

Now, my fellow fruit growers, it is time for us to have something to say about this thing. The present rate of freight and this year s price of fruit, mnans absolute ruin to our industry. Last week I paid $330 freight on a car load of oranges, and the same week a neighbor offered to sell me a five-acre orange grove seven years old, in good condition,
for $300. That is a startling statement. 1 give the price of a five-acre orange grove and $30 t<> have one car load of oranges carried to market!

Now we shoulo not go to the transportation companies as supplicants asking a favor, but we should go as masters of the situation and claim our rights.

The average price the grower has paid for transporting this crop is not far from 65 cents per box. The average net amount recived by the grower will not exceed one-half or two-thirds of that sum. That is not right. It is not a fair divide. The business of a carrier is a legitimate and proper one, and entitled to fair compensation. So is the business of horticulture. There is no good reason why one should have all that is in it, and the other nothing.

The common law recognizes the railroads as common car-


12


SEVENTH ANNUAL MEETING OP THE


riers who are lawfully bound to carry goods at a fair rate.
Who will decide what is a fair rate? The lawyer will an¬
swer: “The courts.” Very true. Theoretically that is cor¬
rect, but practically it is impossible.

THE RIGHT OF MIGHT.

The average orange grower can never reach justice thus,
for he has not the sinews of war to conduct a protracted suit against a great corporation. The transportation companies assume the right to say how much they will take, and they take it. The other party to the arrangement has no voice in the matter. That is not a disinterested tribunal. Its inter¬
ests preclude the possibility of impartial judgment.

There is but one way in which we can get a just and fair tribunal accessible to the poor and lowly, as well as to the rich and strong, and that is by the action of the sovereign people.

This brings us to another phase of the subject, and that is the proper relationship of the horticulturists to the state and nation. In a republic, the people are not only the recipients of the benefits of good government, but in them is placed the sacred duty and responsibility of making it a good govern¬
ment. The horticulturist is no exception. He bas a right to expect of the state the protection of just laws. The state has a right to expect him to do his full share in making and enforcing the laws. Some very good men seem to think it particularly meritorious to say: “I attend strictly to my business and let politics alone.” Such men are selfish. They neglect the first sacred duty of American citizenship, and are deserving of censure. They expect the protection of the laws, and yet will not do their part in making them what they should be.

Gentlemen, the laws of a state are exactly what the law¬
makers make them. If we neglect our duty and allow the laws to be made by the professional place hunter, we must ex-
% pect the laws will be made to subserve his interest. If the producers and business men of the state make the laws, they will be made in accordance with their ideas of justice. If the horticulturist refuses to do his duty as a sovereign citizen,
if he neglects to study public questions and act on his knowl¬
edge, his punishment will consist in having his interests ig¬
nored by those who have done their duty as responsible citi¬
zens of the republic.

ASSERT YOUR RIGHTS.

Here then is the plain road Instead of going to the com¬
mon carriers and begging for favors, assert your rights like men who know them, and enforce justice at the ballot box






Florida state horticultural society.


13


To the practical horticulturist whose heart is in, and whose revenue depends on, his business, partisan politics is a mat¬
ter of small moment. The only use the horticulturist—the true patriot—has for any political party is as an instrument to enact into law such principles as he deems for the good of the country.

If we believe that the prosperity of our state and business will be advanced by a reasonable and just control of the common carriers of the state, then we should say so in the only way we can speak with authority, or forever after hold our peace. To get together in conventions, or in pairs, or in groups, and talk and write about getting “concessions’’ from the railroads, and all that stuff is cbild-like, and p aces us in the false position of mendicants, when really we are the mas¬
ters, and ought to be taking the proper steps to secure our just rights.

WANTS NO FENCES.

Another thing, I have built and am now maintaining
1,950 rods of fence. For mv own use? Not at all. It is not only an expense and of no use to me, but an actual damage.
It is in my way. Why did I build it and w*hy maintain it?
Because the laws of the state permit my neighbors’ stock to come on my land, take my corn and oranges and oats and carry them away. If it is just for him to permit his stock to come and take my crop, why should the law prohibit him from sending his children or his servants, or coming himself and take all that is not defended bv force?

Speaking for one horticulturist, I can say that I have paid more for fences than all the state, county and school taxes I
have paid in Florida. What my neighbor horticulturists and
I have paid for fences would buy all the stock, sheep and ra-
zorbacks in the neighborhood, powder and ball enough to kill them, snd have money enough left to run a free school a good term each year.

STUDY NATIONAL AFFAIRS.

Then again, not only our duty as citizens, but our interests as horticulturists, require that we give thought and atten¬
tion to the affairs of the nation. It is useless for us to plant and water and manure unless we are to have the benefit of the harvest.

The crop of the horticulturist is one of semi-luxury. It is one that in time of want the hard pre'Sed people can and will get along without in some sort of a way. Now, then, ours more than most lines of business, depends for its existence and prosperity on profitable employment of the whole people.
That this prosperity depends largely on national enactments,


14


SEVENTH ANNUAL MEETING OF THE


no one will deny. Throwing partisan politics to the winds^
the horticulturists of the state and nation should give their best thoughts to an understanding of these national issues*,
and so act at the crucial time as to promote the industries and prosperity of the whole country.

With just rates for transportation, with proper arrange¬
ments for distribution, with a great nation of workers and business men profitably and steadily employed for customers,,
our business will be on a sound, permanent, and paying basis.


Reports of Secretary and of Treasurer.


(Mr. W. S. Hart, who had been secretary of the society for a number of years, resigned some time previous to the
Jacksonville meeting, and Mr. Arthur H. Brown was ap¬
pointed to fill the unexpired term. Mr. Brown entered upon the duties of the office March 2,6th, 1894, continuing to dis-
charge the same until the end of the official year, May 20th,.
1894, which included the society’s session at Jacksonville).


Synopsis of the Report of Secretary Hart.

Mr. Hart expressed his regret that imperative duties ren¬
dered it impossible for him to be present at Jacksonville or to complete his term of office. It was a source of satisfaction to him to know that the secretaryship would pass into suqh competent hands for the unexpired term. While Mr. Brown was placed at some disadvantage in undertaking the remain¬
ing work of the year, which was considerable, so suddenly and with the annual meeting so near at hand, still he felt confident the society’s interests and comfort would not suffer by the change.

He reviewed the work of his office, up to the time of his res¬
ignation, at some length, referring especially to the preceding meeting, (Pensacola, April, 1893).

The society’s funds were not sufficient to publish its yearly reports, heretofore this had been provided for by a guarantee fund subscribed among the membership. The effort to obtain an appropriation for this purpose at the last session of the legislature, while it had met with sufficiently favorable reception to justify the expectation of future ac¬
tion, had been unsuccessful. The offer of the Hon. L. B #





FLORIDA STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY.


15


Wombwell, State Commissioner of Agriculture, to issue the report as one of the publications of his office, had, however,
been accepted. The funds available for this purpose did not admit of its immediate publication after the meeting, but ren¬
dered it necessary to issue the report in serial form in the
“Monthly Bulletin,” issued by the Department of Agriculture,
which had been done. The commissioner had subsequently gathered the matter in pamphlet form, and in conformity with the agreement with the society had sent copies to the membership. In addition to this, an edition of some 5,000
copies had been struck for free distribution through the
Bureau of Immigration, and had been widely disseminated in this and other countries, which, the secretary thought would be of great benefit to the state and. the society. Mr. Hart called attention to the fact that Commissioner Wombwell’s action in offering to publish the report, had been entirely voluntary and gratuitous, and prompted by good feeling for the society, and he had no doubt it would receive a proper acknowledgement from the society.

The society having been relieved of the burden of pub¬
lishing the report, it had been possib’e to meet all expenses for the current year, and leave a small balauce in the treasury.

Mr. Hart explained the efforts which had been made to bring in new and desirable members, which had resulted very satisfactorily as the increased membership showed.

The receipts for the year up to the time of his resignation,
had been $270.39; the expenditure, including some debts of the previous year, amounted to $212.56, of which he remitted a statement; $50 had been submitted the treasuier, and $7.83
turned over to his successor.


Synopsis of the Report of Secretary Brown.

After readii g Mr. Hart’s report, Secretary Brown read his own report for the interim between Mr. Hart’s resigna¬
tion and the Jacksonville meeting. He submitted a statement of expenditure amounting to $40.50. He had received
$167.49 and there remained in his hands $126.99. At the opening of the Jacksonville meeting the rolls showed eight life and two hundred and eighty-six annual members.


Synopsis of the Report of J. B. Anderson, Treasurer.

In submitting his statement as treasurer, Mr. Anderson said that owing to the efficient manner in which the secretary and ex-secretary had performed their duties, the treasurer’s task was very light. He had received $50 from Secretary
2




16


SEVENTH ANNUAL MEETING OF THE


Hart, and a 10 per cent, dividend of $13.95 from the First
National bank of Palatka, and had $63.95 on hand. He had learned from the receiver of this hank in which the society had a fund of $139.50 at the time of its failure, that as nearly as he could say there would be another dividend of
15 per cent., which would save to the society about 50 per cent, of the entire deposit.


Resolution by the Executive Committee.

In abridging for publication the report of Ex-Secretary
Hart as read at the last meeting of the society, the secretary is instructed to place on record in this connection in the pub¬
lished report of the proceedings of the society, an expression of the high appreciation in which the services of Mr. W. S.
Jffart as secretary, are held by this committee.
